# Module 9: Windows Azure Storage

# Lab: Microsoft Azure Storage

### Exercise 1: Storing Content in Azure Storage

#### Task 1: Create a storage account

1. Sign in to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** as **Administrator** with the password **Pa$$w0rd**.
2. On the **Start** screen, click the **Computer** tile to open File Explorer.
3. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod09\LabFiles\Setup**.
4. Double-click the **Setup.cmd** file. When prompted for information, provide it according to the instructions.

   >**Note:** You might see warnings in yellow indicating a mismatch in the versions and obsolete settings. These warnings might appear if there are newer versions of Azure PowerShell cmdlets. If these warnings are followed by a red error message, please inform the instructor, otherwise you can ignore them.

5. Write down the name of the cloud service that is shown in the script. You will use it later during the lab.
6. Wait for the script to finish, and then press any key to close the script window.
7. On the **Start** screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.
8. Go to the Microsoft Azure portal at **http://manage.windowsazure.com**.
9. If a page appears, prompting for your email address, enter your email address and click **Continue**. Wait for the **Sign-In** page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

   >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then enter your credentials. ** **

10. If the **Windows Azure Tour** dialog box appears, close it.
11. Click **STORAGE** in the left navigation pane.
12. Click **NEW** on the portal&#39;s taskbar.
13. Click **QUICK CREATE**.
14. In the **URL** text box, enter the following storage account name: **blueyonderlab09yourinitials** (_yourinitials_ is your initials in lowercase).
15. In the **LOCATION** box, select the region closest to your location.
16. Click **CREATE STORAGE ACCOUNT**. Wait until the storage account is created.

   >**Note:** If you get a message saying the storage account creation failed because you reached your storage account limit, delete one of your existing storage accounts and retry the step. If you do not know how to delete a storage account, consult the instructor. ** **

17. Click **STORAGE** in the left navigation pane.
18. In the **STORAGE** pane, click the account name that you just created.
19. Click **MANAGE ACCESS KEYS** at the bottom of the page.
20. In the **Manage Access Keys** dialog box, click the copy icon to the right of the **PRIMARY ACCESS KEY** box.
21. If you are prompted to allow copying to the Clipboard, click **Allow access**.
22. Close the dialog box.

#### Task 2: Add a storage connection string to the cloud project

1. On the **Start** screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.

3. Type **D:\AllFiles\Mod09\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Companion.sln** in the **File name** text box, and then click **Open**.
4. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project. Expand the **Roles** folder, and then double-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** role.
5. Click the **Settings** tab, click **Add Setting**, and then enter the following information:

   - Name: **BlueYonderStore**
   - Type: **Connection String**
   - Click the **Value** box, and then click the ellipsis.

6. In the **Create Storage Connection String** dialog box, enter the following information and click **OK** :

   - Connect using: **Manually entered credentials**
   - Account name: **blueyonderlab09yourinitials** (_yourinitials_ is your initials in lowercase)
   - Account key: Press Ctrl+V to paste the primary access key you copied in the previous task.

7. Click **OK** to close the dialog box.
8. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.

#### Task 3: Create blob containers and upload files to them

1. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Storage** project, and then double-click **AsyncStorageManager.cs**.
2. In the **AsyncStorageManager** class, enter the following code in a default constructor:

  ```cs
		string connectionString = CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("BlueYonderStore");
        _account = CloudStorageAccount.Parse(connectionString);
```
3. Replace the content of the **GetContainer** method with the following code:

  ```cs
		var blobClient = _account.CreateCloudBlobClient();
        var container = blobClient.GetContainerReference(containerName);
        container.CreateIfNotExists();
        return container;
```
4. Replace the content of the **GetBlob** method with the following code:

  ```cs
		CloudBlobContainer container = GetContainer(containerName);
        if (isPublic)
        {
        container.SetPermissions(new BlobContainerPermissions { PublicAccess = BlobContainerPublicAccessType.Blob });
        }
        return container.GetBlockBlobReference(fileName);
```
5. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
6. Locate the **UploadStreamAsync** method and explore its code. The method uses the previous methods to retrieve a reference to the new blob, and then uploads the stream to it.

#### Task 4: Explore the asynchronous file upload action

1. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, and then double-click **FilesController.cs**.

2. Explore the **UploadFile** method of the **FilesController** class. Explore how the asynchronous **UploadStreamAsync** method is called, and how the result is returned.
3. Explore the **Public** and **Private** methods of the **FilesController** class. Each method uploads a file to either a public blob container or a private blob container.

   >**Note:** The client app calls these service actions to upload files as either public or private files. Public files can be viewed by any user, whereas private files can only be viewed by the user who uploaded them.

 
   >**Results** : After you complete the exercise, your code will support storing files in a blob storage, either in a private container or a public container. You will be able to test your changes at the end of the lab.

### Exercise 2: Storing Content in Azure Table Storage

#### Task 1: Write the files metadata to the Table storage

1. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Storage** project, expand the **TableEntities** folder, and then double-click **FileEntity.cs**.
2. Add the following **using** directive to the beginning of the file:

  ```cs
		using Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.Table.DataServices;
```
3. Derive the **FileEntity** class from the **TableServiceEntity** abstract class by replacing the **FileEntity** class declaration with the following code:

   ```cs
		public class FileEntity : TableServiceEntity
```
4. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.
5. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Storage** project, double-click **AsyncStorageManager.cs**.
6. Add the following **using** directive to the beginning of the file:

  ```cs
		using Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.Table;
```
7. In the **AsyncStorageManager** class, replace the content of the **GetTableContext** method with the following code:

  ```cs
		CloudTableClient tableClient = _account.CreateCloudTableClient();
        CloudTable table = tableClient.GetTableReference(MetadataTable);
        table.CreateIfNotExists();
        TableServiceContext tableContext = tableClient.GetTableServiceContext();
        return tableContext;
```
   >**Note:** You should make sure the table exists before you return a context for it, otherwise the code will fail when running queries on the table. If you have already created the table, you can skip calling the **GetTableReference** and **CreateIfNotExists** methods.

8. In the **SaveMetadataAsync** method, add the following code after the **// TODO: Lab 9 Exercise 2: Task 1.3: use a TableServiceContext to add the object** comment:

  ```cs
		tableContext.AddObject(MetadataTable, fileData);
```
9. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.
10. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, double-click **FilesController.cs**.
11. In the **CreateFileEntity** method, before the return statement, add the following code:

  ```cs
		entity.RowKey = HttpUtility.UrlEncode(fileData.Uri.ToString());
        entity.PartitionKey= locationId.ToString();
```
   >**Note:** The **RowKey** property is set to the file&#39;s URL, because it has a unique value. The URL is encoded because the forward slash (/) character is not valid in row keys. The **PartitionKey** property is set to the **locationID** property, because the partition key groups all the files from a single location in the same partition. By using the location&#39;s ID as the partition key, you can query the table and get all the files uploaded for a specific location. 

12. Explore the code in the **Metadata** method. The method creates the **FileEntity** object and saves it to the table.

   >**Note:** The client app calls this service action after it uploads the new file to Blob storage. Storing the list of files in Table storage enables the client app to use queries to find specific images, either by trip or location.

#### Task 2: Query the Table storage

1. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Storage** project, double-click **AsyncStorageManager.cs**.

2. In the **AsyncStorageManager** class, replace the content of the **GetLocationMetadata** method with the following code:

  ```cs
		TableServiceContext tableContext = GetTableContext();
        var query = from file in tableContext.CreateQuery<FileEntity>(MetadataTable)
        where file.PartitionKey == locationId
        select file;
        return query.ToList();
```
   >**Note:** The location ID was used as the entity&#39;s partition key. ** **

3. In the **GetFilesMetadata** method, uncomment the following line:

  ```cs
		//where file.RowKey = rowKey
```
4. Verify that the final method code is as follows:

  ```cs
		TableServiceContext tableContext = GetTableContext();
        foreach (var rowKey in rowKeys)
        {
            var fileEntity = (from file in tableContext.CreateQuery<FileEntity>(MetadataTable)
            where file.RowKey == rowKey
            select file).Single();
            yield return fileEntity;
        }
```
5. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.
6. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, double-click **FilesController.cs**.
7. In the **FilesController** class, review the content of **LocationMetadata**.

    >**Note:** The method calls the **GetLocationMetadata** method from the **AsyncStorageManager** class, and converts the  **FileEntity** objects that are marked as public to **FileDto** objects. The client app calls this service action to get a list of all public files related to a specific location.

8. Locate the **ToFileDto** method of the **FileController** class.
9. Uncomment the following line:

  ```cs
		LocationId = int.Parse(file.PartitionKey),
```
10. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
11. Open the **FilesController** class and explore the code in the **TripMetadata** method.

   >**Note:** The method retrieves the list of files in the trip&#39;s public blob container, and then uses the **GetFilesMetadata**  method of the **AsyncStorageManager** class to get the **FileEntity** object for each of the files. The client app calls this service action to get a list of all files related to a specific trip. Currently, the code retrieves only public files. In the next exercise, you will add the code to retrieve both public and private files.


  >**Results** : After you complete the exercise, your code will support storing information about uploaded photos in Table storage. You will be able to test your changes at the end of the lab.

### Exercise 3: Creating Shared Access Signatures for Blobs

#### Task 1: Change the public photos query to return private photos

1. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Storage** project, double-click **AsyncStorageManager.cs**
2. In the **AsyncStorageManager** class, replace the content of the **CreateSharedAccessSignature** method with the following code:

  ```cs
		var policy = new SharedAccessBlobPolicy()
        {
           Permissions = SharedAccessBlobPermissions.Read,
           SharedAccessExpiryTime = DateTime.UtcNow.AddHours(1)
        };
```
3. In the **CreateSharedAccessSignature** method, add the following code to the end of the method:

  ```cs
		BlobContainerPermissions blobPermissions = new BlobContainerPermissions();
        blobPermissions.SharedAccessPolicies.Add("blueyonder", policy);
        var container = GetContainer(containerName);
        container.SetPermissions(blobPermissions);
```
4. Complete the **CreateSharedAccessSignature** method by adding the following code to the end of the method:

  ```cs
		return container.GetSharedAccessSignature(policy);
```
5. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.

   >**Note:** The shared access key signature is a URL query string that you append to blob URLs. Without the query string, you cannot access private blobs.

6. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, double-click **FilesController.cs**.
7. In the **FilesController** class, locate the **TripMetadata** method.
8. Add the following code after the **// TODO: Lab 9, Exercise 3, Task 1.4: get a list of files in the trip&#39;s private folder**  comment:

  ```cs
		var privateUris = storageManager.GetFileUris(GetContainer(id, true));
        var allUris = publicUris.Union(privateUris);
```
9. In the **allKeys** variable assignment, replace the **publicUris** variable with the **allUris** variable. The resulting code should resemble the following:

  ```cs
		var allKeys = allUris.Select(u => HttpUtility.UrlEncode(u.ToString()));
```
10. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.
11. Locate the **ToFileDto** method and explore its code. If the requested file is private, you create a shared access key for the blob&#39;s container, and then set the **Uri** property of the file to a URL containing the shared access key.
12. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, and then click **Publish**.
13. If you have already added your Azure subscription information to Visual Studio 2012, select your subscription from the drop-down list and skip to step 16.
14. In the **Publish Windows Azure Application** dialog box, click **Import**.
15. Type **D:\AllFiles\Mod09\LabFiles** in the **File name** text box, and then click **Open**. Select your publish settings file and click **Open**.
16. Click **Next**.
17. On the **Common Settings** tab, click the **Cloud Service** box, and select the cloud service that matches the name you wrote down at the beginning of the lab, while running the setup script.
18. Click **Publish** to start the publishing process. If a **Deployment Environment In Use** dialog box appears, click **Replace**. The publish process might take several minutes to complete.

#### Task 2: Upload public and private files to Azure Storage

1. Sign in to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** as **Admin** with the password **Pa$$w0rd**.

2. On the **Start** screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
3. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
4. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod09\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client\**, select the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client.sln** file, and then click **Open**.
5. If a **Developers License** dialog box appears, click **I Agree**. If a **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**. Type your email address and a password in the **Windows Security** dialog boxand then click **Sign in**. Click **Close** in the  **Developers License** dialog box.

   >**Note:** If you do not have valid email address, click **Sign up** and register for the service.  
   >Write down these credentials and use them whenever you need to provide an email account.

6. In Solution Explorer, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
7. Locate the **BaseUri** property, and replace the **{CloudService}** string with the Azure cloud service name that you wrote down at the beginning of this lab.
8. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
9. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
10. Press Ctrl+F5 to start the client app without debugging.
11. If you are prompted to allow the app to run in the background, click **Allow**.
12. After the client app starts, display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen.
13. Click **Search** , and in the **Search** box on the right side, type **New**. If you are prompted to allow the app to share your location, click **Allow**.
14. Wait for the app to show a list of flights from **Seattle** to **New York**.
15. Click **Purchase this trip**.
16. In the **First Name** text box, type your first name.
17. In the **Last Name** text box, type your last name.
18. In the **Passport** text box, type **Aa1234567**.
19. In the **Mobile Phone** text box, type **555-5555555**.
20. In the **Home Address** text box, type **423 Main St.**.
21. In the **Email Address** text box, type your email address.
22. Click **Purchase**.
23. Click **Close** to close the confirmation message.
24. On the **Blue Yonder Companion** page, click the current trip from Seattle to New York.
25. On the **Current Trip** page, display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen. Click **Media**.
26. On the **Media** page, display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen. Click **Add Files from Disk**.
27. Go to **D:\Allfiles\Mod09\LabFiles\Assets** , select **StatueOfLiberty.jpg** , and then click **Open**.
28. On the **Media** page, display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen. Click **Upload Item to Public Storage**.
29. Wait until the file is uploaded.
30. On the **Media** page, display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen. Click **Add Files from Disk**.
31. Select **EmpireStateBuilding.jpg**, and then click **Open**.
32. On the **Media** page, display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen. Click **Upload Item to Private Storage**.
33. Wait until the file is uploaded.
34. Click the back button. On the **Current Trip** page, display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen, and then click **Media**.
35. On the **Media** page, wait for a couple of seconds until the images are downloaded from Azure storage. Verify that both the private and public photos appear.
36. Click the back button to return to the **Current Trip** page, and then click the back button again to return to the **Blue Yonder Companion** page. Under **New York at a Glance** , verify that the photo of the Statue of Liberty, which you uploaded to the public container, appears.

#### Task 3: View the content of the blob containers and the table

1. Return to the Visual Studio 2012 instance on the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine.
2. On the **View** menu, click **Server Explorer**.
3. In Server Explorer, right-click **Windows Azure Storage** , and then click **Add New Storage Account**.
4. If you have already added your Azure subscription information to Visual Studio 2012, select your subscription from the drop-down list and skip to step 8. Otherwise, proceed to the next step.
5. In the **Add New Storage Account** dialog box, click **Import**.
6. Type **D:\AllFiles\Mod09\LabFiles** in the **File name** text box, and then click **Open**. Select your publish settings file and click **Open.** Make sure that your subscription is selected in the **Subscription** drop-down list.

7. In the **Account name** drop-down list, select the account named **blueyonderlab09yourinitials** (_yourinitials_ is your initials in lowercase). Click**OK**.
8. In Server Explorer, expand the **blueyonderlab09**** yourinitials**(_yourinitials_ is your initials in lowercase) node and then expand**Blobs**. Observe the two folders that were created, one for public photos and the other for private photos.
9. Under **Blobs** , double-click the container that ends with **public**. The blob container holds one file.
10. In the container&#39;s file table, right-click the first line, and then click **Copy URL**.
11. On the **Start** screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.
12. In the browser&#39;s address bar, remove the existing address and press Ctrl+V to paste the copied address. Press Enter and observe the uploaded photo.
13. Return to Visual Studio 2012, and in Server Explorer, double-click the container that ends with **private**. The blob container holds one file.
14. In the container&#39;s file table, right-click the first line, and then click **Copy URL**.
15. On the **Start** screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.
16. In the browser&#39;s address bar, remove the existing address and press Ctrl+V to paste the copied address. Press Enter.  
    Private photos cannot be accessed by a direct URL; therefore, an HTTP 404 (The webpage cannot be found) page appears.

   >**Note:** The client app is able to show the private photo because it uses a URL that contains a shared access permission key.

17. In Server Explorer, expand the **Tables** node, and then double-click the **FilesMetadata** node.
18. View the content of the **FilesMetadata** table. The table contains metadata for both public and private photos.

   >**Results** : After you complete the exercise, you will be able to use the client app to upload photos to the private and public blob containers. You will also be able to view the content of Blob storage and Table storage by using Visual Studio 2012.
