# Module 12: Scaling Services

# Lab: Scalability

### Exercise 1: Add a Caching Worker Role to the Cloud Project

#### Task 1: Create a new ACS namespace

1. In the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine, on the Start screen, click the **Computer** tile to open File Explorer.
2. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod12\LabFiles\Setup**.
3. Double-click the **setup.cmd** file. When prompted for information, provide it according to the instructions.

   >**Note:** You might see warnings in yellow indicating a mismatch in the versions and obsolete settings. These warnings might appear if there are newer versions of Azure PowerShell cmdlets. If these warnings are followed by a red error message, please inform the instructor, otherwise you can ignore them.

4. Wait for the script to finish, and then press any key to close the script window.
5. On the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
6. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
7. Go to **D:\Allfiles\Mod12\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server**, select the file **BlueYonder.Companion.sln**, and then click **Open**.
8. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure project**, right-click **Roles**, point to **Add**, and then click **New Worker Role Project**.
9. In the **Add New .NET Framework 4.5 Role Project** dialog box, click **Cache Worker Role**.
10. In the **Name** text box, type **BlueYonder.Companion.CacheWorkerRole**, and then click **Add**.
11. On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.

#### Task 2: Add the Microsoft Azure Caching NuGet Package to the ASP.NET Web API Project

1. On the **View** menu, point to **Other Windows**, and then click **Package Manager Console**.
2. In **Package Manager Console**, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```cs
		install-package Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Caching -version 2.0.0.0 -ProjectName BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers
```
3. In Package Manager Console, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```cs
		install-package Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Caching -version 2.0.0.0 -ProjectName BlueYonder.Companion.Host
```
4. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, double-click **Web.config**.
5. Locate the **&lt;dataCacheClients&gt;** section at the end of the file, and then in it locate the **&lt;autoDiscover&gt;** element.
6. Change the value of the **identifier** attribute to **BlueYonder.Companion.CacheWorkerRole**.
7. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.

#### Task 3: Add Code to Cache the List of Searched Locations

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, and then double-click **FlightsController.cs**.

2. Add the following **using** directive to the beginning of the file:

  ```cs
		using Microsoft.ApplicationServer.Caching;
```
3. Locate the comment _// TODO: Place cache initialization here_, and then place the following code after it:

  ```cs
	 	DataCacheFactory cacheFactory = new DataCacheFactory();
         DataCache cache = cacheFactory.GetDefaultCache();
```
4. Locate the comment _// TODO: Place cache check here_, and then place the following code after it:

  ```cs
			string cacheKey = String.Format("{0};{1};{2}",
       		     source.ToString(), destination.ToString(),
        	     date.HasValue ? date.ToString() : String.Empty);
        	routesWithSchedules = cache.Get(cacheKey) as List<FlightWithSchedulesDTO>;
```
5. Locate the comment _// TODO: Insert into cache here_, and place the following code after it:

  ```cs
		cache.Put(cacheKey, routesWithSchedules);
```
6. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.

#### Task 4: Debug Using the Client Application

1. Click the first line of code in the **Get** method you have edited in the previous task, and then press F9 to add a breakpoint.
2. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
3. Press F5 to start the Windows Azure emulator.
4. Switch into the **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** virtual machine.
5. On the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
6. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
7. Type **D:\AllFiles\Mod12\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client\BlueYonder.Companion.Client.sln** in the **File name** text box, and then click **Open**.
8. If you are prompted by a **Developers License** dialog box, click **I Agree**.
9. If you are prompted by a **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes.**
10. Type your email address and a password in the **Windows Security** dialog box,and then click **Sign in**.
11. Click **Close** in the **Developers License** dialog box.

   >**Note:** If you do not have valid email address, click Sign up and register for the service.  
   >Write down these credentials and use them whenever a use of an email account is required.

12. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
13. The client app is already configured to use the Azure compute emulator. Press Ctrl+F5 to start the client app without debugging.

   >**Note:** Normally, the Azure Emulator is not accessible from other computers on the network. For the purpose of testing this lab from a Windows 8 client, a routing module was installed on the server&#39;s IIS, routing the incoming traffic to the emulator.

14. If you are prompted to allow the app to run in the background, click **Allow**.
15. After the client app starts, display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen.
16. Click **Search**, and then in the **Search** box on the right side, type **N**.
17. Go back to the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine, and then to Visual Studio 2012. The code execution breaks, and the line in breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
18. Press F10 several times, until you reach the second **if** statement.
19. Hover over the **routesWithSchedules** object and verify that the value of the variable is **null**, meaning the item was not found in the cache.
20. Press F5 to continue, and go back to the **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** virtual machine, to the client app.
21. Close the client app, return to Visual Studio 2012, and then press Ctrl+F5 to start the client app without debugging.
22. Display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen.
23. Click **Search**, and then in the **Search** box on the right side, type **N.**
24. Go back to the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine, and then to Visual Studio 2012. The code execution breaks, and the line in breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
25. Press F10 several times, until you reach the second **if** statement.
26. Hover over the **routesWithSchedules** object and verify that now the code retrieves data from the cache.
27. Press F5 to continue running the code, return to Visual Studio 2012, and then on the **Debug** menu click **Stop Debugging**.
28. Go back to the **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** virtual machine, and then close the client app.

  >**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully added a caching worker role to the Cloud project, and implemented other Microsoft Azure caching features.

Perform the following steps to apply the **StartingImage** snapshot:

1. On the host computer, click **Start**, point to **Administrative Tools**, and then click **Hyper-V Manager**.
2. In Hyper-V Manager, click **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**, and in the **Snapshots** pane, right-click **StartingImage**, and then click **Apply**.
3. In the **Apply Snapshot** dialog box, click **Apply**.
4. Repeat Step 2 for all the virtual machines that you used in this lab. (excluding **MSL-TMG1**).
