# Module 1: Overview of Service and Cloud Technologies

# Lab: Exploring the Work Environment

### Exercise 1: Creating an Azure SQL Database

#### Task 1: Create a new Azure SQL Database server

1. On the **Start** screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.
2. Go to **https://manage.windowsazure.com**.
3. If a page appears, prompting you to enter your email address, type your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the **Sign In** page to appear, type your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

   >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account that you previously used, and then continue to type your credentials.

4. In the navigation pane, click **SQL DATABASES.**
5. In the **sql databases** page, click the **SERVERS** tab.
6. Click **ADD** at the bottom of the page.
7. In the **SQL database server settings** dialog box, in the **LOGIN NAME** text box, type **SQLAdmin**.
8. In the **LOGIN PASSWORD** and **CONFIRM PASSWORD** text boxes, type **Pa$$w0rd**.
9. In the **REGION** list, select the region that is closest to you.
10. Clear the **ENABLE LATEST SQL DATABASE UPDATE (V12)** check box, and then click **Complete** (the V icon).
11. Wait till the server appears in the list of servers and its status changes to **Ready**.
12. Write down the name of the newly created SQL database server.

#### Task 2: Manage the Azure SQL Database server from SQL Server Management Studio

1. On the **sql databases** page, click the name of the newly created server.

2. Click the **CONFIGURE** tab.
3. Under the **allowed ip addresses** section, add a new firewall rule by providing the following information:

   - RULE NAME: **OpenAllIPs**
   - START IP ADDRESS: **0.0.0.0**
   - END IP ADDRESS: **255.255.255.255**

4. Click **Save**.

   >**Note:** We recommend that you allow only your computer&#39;s IP address, or your organization&#39;s IP address range to access the database server. However, in this course, you will use this database server for the upcoming labs, and your IP address might change in the meanwhile; therefore, you are required to allow access from all IP addresses.

5. On the **Start** screen, click the **SQL Server Management Studio** tile.
6. In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, in the **_Server name_** text box, type **SQLServerName.database.windows.net** (Replace **_SQLServerName_** with the server name that you wrote down in the previous task).
7. In the **Authentication** drop-down list, select **SQL Server Authentication**.
8. In the **Login** text box, type **SQLAdmin** , in the **Password** text box, type **Pa$$w0rd** , and then click **Connect**.
9. In Object Explorer, right-click the **Databases** node, and then click **Import Data Tier Application.**
10. In the **Import Data-tier Application** wizard, click **Next** , and then click **Browse**.
11. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod01\LabFiles\Assets**.
12. Double-click **BlueYonder.bacpac**.
13. Click **Next** , click **Next** again, and then click **Finish**.
14. Wait until the database import procedure completes, and then click **Close**.
15. Press F5 to refresh the database list.
16. Expand the **Databases** node, and then verify that the **BlueYonder** database is created.

    >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you should have created an Azure SQL database in your Azure account.

### Exercise 2: Creating an Entity Data Model

#### Task 1: Create an Entity Framework Model

1. On the **Start** screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.

2. On the **File** menu, point to **New**, and then click **Project**.
3. In the **New Project** dialog box, on the navigation pane, expand the **Installed** node, expand the **Templates** node, expand the **Visual C#** node, and then click the **Windows** node.
4. Select **Class Library** from the list of templates.
5. In the **Name** text box, type **BlueYonder.Model**, in the **Location** text box, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod01\LabFiles\begin** ,select the **Create directory for solution** check box, and then click **OK**.
6. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **Class1.cs** file, click **Delete**, and then click **OK**.
7. Right-click the **BlueYonder.Model** project, point to **Add**, and then click **New Item**.
8. In the **Add New Item** dialog box, in the navigation pane, expand the **Visual C# Items** node, click the **Data** node, and then select **ADO.NET Entity Data Model** from the list of templates.
9. In the **Name** text box, type **EntityModel**, and then click **Add**.
10. In the **Entity Data Model Wizard**, click **Generate from database**, and then click **Next**.
11. In the **Choose Your Data Connection** page, click **New Connection**.
12. If the **Choose Data Source** dialog box appears, click **Microsoft SQL Server**, and then click **Continue**.
13. In the **Connection Properties** dialog box, in the **Server name** text box, type **SQLServerName.database.windows.net** (replace **SQLServerName** with the server name that you wrote down in the previous exercise).
14. Select the **Use SQL Server Authentication** option.
15. In the **User name** text box, type **SQLAdmin**, in the **Password** text box, type **Pa$$w0rd** , select **Save my password**, and then click **Test Connection**. Verify that the connection test succeeded.
16. Click **OK** to close the **Microsoft Visual Studio** dialog box.
17. From the **Select or enter a database name** list, select the **BlueYonder** database, and then click **OK**.
18. In the **Choose Your Data Connection** page, select **Yes, Include the sensitive data in the connection string**, and then click  **Next**.
19. In the **Choose Your Database Objects and Settings** page, expand **Tables**, expand **dbo**, select **Locations** and **Travelers**, and then click **Finish**. Wait until Visual Studio 2012 creates the data model.
20. If the **Security Warning** dialog box appears, click **OK** (it might appear more than once).
21. Press Ctrl+S to save the file,
22. If the **Security Warning** dialog box appears, click **OK** (it might appear more than once).
23. Close the **EntityModel.edmx** diagram.

    >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you should have created Entity Framework wrappers for the **BlueYonder** database.

### Exercise 3: Managing the Entity Framework Model with an ASP.NET Web API Project

#### Task 1: Create an ASP.NET Web API Project

1. Right-click the **BlueYonder.Model** solution, point to **Add** , and then click **New Project**.

2. In the **Add New Project** dialog box, in the navigation pane, expand the **Installed** node, expand the **Templates** node, expand the **Visual C#** node, click the **Web** node, and then select **ASP.NET MVC 4 Web Application** from the list of templates.
3. In the **Name** text box, type **BlueYonder.MVC** , and then click **OK**.
4. In the **New ASP.NET MVC 4 Project** dialog box, select the **Web API** template, and then click **OK**.

#### Task 2: Add a Web API Controller with CRUD Actions by using the Add Controller Wizard

1. Right-click the **BlueYonder.MVC** project, and then click **Add Reference**.

2. In the **Reference Manager** dialog box, in the navigation pane, click **Solution** , select **BlueYonder.Model** , and then click  **OK**.
3. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.Model** project, double-click **App.config**.
4. Locate the **&lt;connectionStrings&gt;** section, select the **&lt;add&gt;** element, including its attributes, and then press Ctrl+C to copy the element to the Clipboard.
5. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.MVC** project, double-click **Web.config**.
6. Locate the **&lt;connectionStrings&gt;** section, place the cursor after the **&lt;connectionStrings&gt;** tag, and then press Ctrl+V to paste the connection string.
7. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
8. On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.
9. On the **View** menu, click **Server Explorer**.
10. In Server Explorer, right-click **Data Connections** , and then click **Refresh**. **BlueYonderEntities** will display under the **Data Connections** node.
11. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.MVC** project, right-click **Controllers** , point to **Add** , and then click **Controller**.
12. In the **Add Controller** dialog box, in the **Controller name** text box, type **LocationsController**.
13. From the **Template** drop-down list, select **API controller with read/write actions, using Entity Framework**.
14. From the **Model class** combo box, select **Location (BlueYonder.Model)**.
15. From the **Data context class** combo box, select **BlueYonderEntities (BlueYonder.Model)**.
16. Click **Add** to create the controller.

    >**Note:** You now have a Web API controller for the Location model.

17. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.MVC** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
18. To start the application without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.
19. In the **Internet Explorer** window, in the address bar, append **api/locations** to the address, and then press Enter.
20. At the bottom of the Internet Explorer window, a prompt appears. Click **Open**.
21. If you are prompted to select a program to open the file, in **Windows can&#39;t open this type of file (.json)** dialog box, click **Try an app on this PC** , click **Notepad** from the list of available programs. When **Notepad** opens, you should see a list of location entities, encoded with the JSON format.

    >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you should have created a web app that exposes the Web API for CRUD operations on the BlueYonder database.

### Exercise 4: Deploying a Web App to Azure

#### Task 1: Create a New Azure Web App

1. On the **Start** screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.

2. Go to the Azure portal at **https://manage.windowsazure.com**.
3. If a page appears prompting you to select your account, click the account that you used in the previous exercise.
4. If the **Sign in** page appears, type your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.
5. In the navigation pane, click **WEB APPS** , click **NEW** , and then click **QUICK CREATE**.
6. In the **URL** text box, type **BlueYonderWebSite _YourInitials_** (Replace **YourInitials** with your initials).

   >**Note:** The name you type will be appended with the **.azurewebsites.net** suffix, providing a unique host name that will be used as your web app's URL. 

7. From the **APP SERVICE PLAN** drop-down list, select **Create new App Service plan**.
8. From the **REGION** dropdown list, select the region that is closest to your location.
9. Click **CREATE WEB APP**. The web app is added to the Web Apps table with the status **Creating**.
10. Wait until the status changes to **Running** _._
11. On the **web apps** page, click the name of the new web app.
12. On the **DASHBOARD** page, under **quick glance** , click **Download the publish profile**.A dialog box appears at the bottom. Click the arrow next to the **Save** button, select the **Save as** option, and then specify the location  **D:\AllFiles\Mod01\LabFiles**.
13. Click **Save**.

#### Task 2: Deploy the web application to the Azure web app

1. Switch to Visual Studio 2012.

2. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.MVC** project, and then click **Publish**.
3. In the **Publish Web** dialog box, click **Import** , go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod01\LabFiles** , select the profile settings file that you downloaded in the previous task, and then click **Open**.
4. In the **Import Publish Profile** dialog box, click **OK**.
5. In the **Publish Web** dialog box, click **Publish**.

   >**Note:** Visual Studio 2012 builds and publishes the application according to the settings that are provided in the profile file.

6. After the deployment completes, Internet Explorer opens and the web application displays.

   >**Note:** At this point, you can click **Next** at every step of the wizard, and then click **Publish** to start the publishing process. Later in the course, you will learn how the deployment process works and how to configure it.

7. In the **Internet Explorer** window, in the address bar, append **api/locations** to the address, and then press Enter.
8. At the bottom of the **Internet Explorer** window, a prompt appears. Click **Open**.
9. If you are prompted to select a program to open the file, click **Notepad** from the list of available programs.
10. When Notepad opens, you should see a list of location entities, encoded with the JSON format.

#### Task 3: Delete the Azure SQL Database Server

1. On the **Start** screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.

2. Go to **https://manage.windowsazure.com**.
3. If a page appears prompting you to select your account, click the account that you used previously in this lab.
4. If the **Sign in** page appears, type your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.
5. In the navigation pane, click **SQL DATABASES.**
6. On **sql databases** page, click the **SERVERS** tab.
7. On the **sql database** page, in the **STATUS** column, click the row for the newly created server, and then click **DELETE**.
8. In the **Delete Server Confirmation** dialog box, type the name of the server, as suggested in the deletion confirmation text, and then click **V** to confirm the operation.

   >**Note:** Azure free subscriptions have a resource limitation and a restriction on the total working hours. To avoid exceeding those limitations, you must delete the Azure SQL Database resources.

   
   >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you should have ensured that all your products are hosted on the Microsoft Azure cloud by using SQL Databases and Azure Web Apps.
