# Module 7: Windows Azure Service Bus

# Lab: Microsoft Azure Service Bus

### Exercise 1: Using a Service Bus Relay for the WCF Booking Service

#### Task 1: Create the Service Bus namespace by using the Azure Portal

1. In the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine, on the Start screen, click the **Computer** tile to open File Explorer.
2. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod07\LabFiles\Setup**.
3. Double-click the **Setup.cmd** file. When prompted for information, provide it according to the instructions.

   >**Note:** You might see warnings in yellow indicating a mismatch in the versions and setting deprecations. These warnings may appear if there is a newer version of the Azure PowerShell cmdlets. If this message is followed by a red error message, please inform the instructor, otherwise you can ignore the warnings.

4. Note the name of the cloud service that is shown in the script. You will use it later during the lab.
5. Wait for the script to finish executing, and then press any key to close the script window.
6. On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.
7. Go to the Microsoft Azure portal at **http://manage.windowsazure.com**.
8. If a page appears, asking for your email address, type your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the **Sign In** page to appear, type your email address and password, and then click **Sign In.**

   >**Note:** If during the sign-in process, a page appears asking you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then continue to type your credentials.

9. If the **Windows Azure Tour** dialog box appears, close it.
10. In the navigation pane on the left side, click **SERVICE BUS**, and then at the bottom of the page, click **CREATE**.
11. In the **CREATE A NAMESPACE** dialog box provide the following information:

    - NAMESPACE NAME: **BlueYonderServerLab07YourInitials** (Replace _YourInitials_ with your initials).
    - TYPE: **MESSAGING**
    - MESSAGING TIER: **STANDARD**
    - REGION: Select the region closest to your location.

12. To create the namespace, click the **V** icon at the bottom of the dialog box, and wait until the namespace is active.
13. Click the name of the newly created namespace.
14. Click the **CONFIGURE** tab.
15. Click the **Copy** icon to the right side of the **PRIMARY KEY** text box.
16. If you are prompted to allow access to your clipboard, click **Allow access.**

#### Task 2: Add a new WCF Endpoint with a relay binding

1. On the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. In the **File name** text box, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod07\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Server.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4. In Visual Studio, on the **Tools** menu, point to **Library Package Manager**, and then click **Package Manager Console**.
5. In the **Package Manager Console**, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```cs
       install-package WindowsAzure.ServiceBus -version 3.1.1 -ProjectName BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost
```
6. Wait until the **Package Manager Console** finishes downloading and adding the package.

   >**Note:** Other projects in the solution already reference a specific version of the **WindowsAzure.ServiceBus** NuGet package. Therefore, you are required to use the **Package Manager Console** to install the same version of the NuGet package. ** **

7. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project, and then double-click **Web.config**.
8. In the **&lt;system.serviceModel&gt;** section group, locate the **&lt;services&gt;** section, and then inside it, locate the **&lt;endpoint&gt;** element named **BookingTcp**.
9. In the **&lt;endpoint&gt;** element, change the value of the **binding** attribute from **netTcpBinding** to **netTcpRelayBinding**.
10. Add the **address** attribute to the **&lt;endpoint&gt;** element with the value **sb://BlueYonderServerLab07YourInitials.servicebus.windows.net/booking** (Replace _YourInitials_ with your initials).
11. In the **&lt;system.serviceModel&gt;** section group, locate the **&lt;behaviors&gt;** section.
12. In the **&lt;behaviors&gt;** section, add the following configuration.

  ```cs
        <endpointBehaviors>
           <behavior name="sbTokenProvider">
             <transportClientEndpointBehavior>
                   <tokenProvider>
                     <sharedAccessSignature keyName="RootManageSharedAccessKey" key="{AccessKey}" />
                   </tokenProvider>
             </transportClientEndpointBehavior>
           </behavior>
        </endpointBehaviors>
```
13. Substitute the **{AccessKey}** placeholder by pasting the Service Bus namespace access key that you copied in the previous task.

   >**Note:** Visual Studio Intellisense uses built-in schemas to perform validations. Therefore, it will not recognize the **transportClientEndpointBehavior** behavior extension, and will display a warning. Disregard this warning.

14. In the **&lt;system.serviceModel&gt;** section group, locate the **&lt;services&gt;** section, and then inside it, locate the **&lt;endpoint&gt;** element.
15. Add a **behaviorConfiguration** attribute to the element, and then set its value to **sbTokenProvider**.
16. Locate the **&lt;system.webServer&gt;** section group, and then add the following configuration to it.

  ```cs
        <applicationInitialization>
          <add  initializationPage="/booking.svc"/>
        </applicationInitialization>
```
17. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.

   >**Note:** Application initialization automatically sends requests to specified addresses after the Web application loads. Sending the request to the service will make the service host load and initiate the Service Bus connection.

18. On the Start screen, click the **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** tile.
19. In the **Connections** pane, expand **SEA-DEV12-A (SEA-DEV12-A\Administrator)**.
20. If an **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** dialog box appears asking about the Microsoft Web Platform, click **No**.
21. In the **Connections** pane, click the **Application Pools** node.
22. In the **Features View**, right-click **DefaultAppPool**, and then click **Advanced Settings**.
23. In the **Advanced Settings** dialog box, set the **Start Mode** option to **AlwaysRunning**.
24. To save the settings, click **OK**.

   >**Note:** Setting the start mode to **AlwaysRunning** will load the application pool automatically after IIS loads. To use application initialization, the application pool must be running.

25. From the **Connections** pane, expand the **Sites** node, and then expand the **Default Web Site** node, right-click the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** node, point to **Manage Application** , and then click **Advanced Settings**.
26. In the **Advanced Settings** dialog box, set the **Preload Enabled** option to **True**. This setting will start the service after IIS starts.
27. To save the changes, click **OK**.

   >**Note:** When preload is enabled, IIS will simulate requests after the application pool starts. The list of requests is specified in the application initialization configuration that you already created.

28. Return to Visual Studio 2012.
29. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project, and then click **Build**.
30. Return to IIS Manager.
31. In the **Connections** pane, click the **Application Pools** node, in the Features View, right-click **DefaultAppPool**, and then click **Recycle**.

#### Task 3: Configure the ASP.NET Web API back-end service to use the new relay endpoint

1. On the Start screen, right-click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile, and then at the app bar click **Open new window**.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. In the **File name** text box, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod07\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Companion.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4. In Visual Studio, on the **Tools** menu, point to **Library Package Manager**, and then click **Package Manager Console**.
5. In the **Package Manager Console**, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```cs
        install-package WindowsAzure.ServiceBus -version 3.1.1 -ProjectName BlueYonder.Companion.Host
```
6. Wait until the **Package Manager Console** finishes downloading and adding the package.
7. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and then double-click **Web.config**.
8. In the **&lt;system.serviceModel&gt;** section group, locate the **&lt;client&gt;** section, and then inside it, locate the **&lt;endpoint&gt;** element.
9. Change the value of the **binding** attribute from **netTcpBinding** to **netTcpRelayBinding**.
10. Substitute the value of the **address** attribute with the following value: **sb://BlueYonderServerLab07YourInitials.servicebus.windows.net/booking** (Replace _YourInitials_ with your initials).
11. In the **&lt;system.serviceModel&gt;** section group, add the following configuration.

  ```cs
        <behaviors>
          <endpointBehaviors>
            <behavior>
        <transportClientEndpointBehavior>
          <tokenProvider>
            <sharedAccessSignature keyName="RootManageSharedAccessKey" key="{AccessKey}" />
          </tokenProvider>
        </transportClientEndpointBehavior>
            </behavior>
          </endpointBehaviors>
        </behaviors>
```
12. Substitute the **{AccessKey}** placeholder by pasting the Service Bus namespace access key that you copied in the first task.
13. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
14. To close the file, press Ctrl+F4.

   >**Note:** Visual Studio Intellisense uses built-in schemas to perform validations. Therefore, it will not recognize **transportClientEndpointBehavior** behavior extension, and will display a warning. Disregard this warning.

#### Task 4: Test the WCF service

1. On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.
2. Go to the Azure portal at **http://manage.windowsazure.com**.
3. If during the sign-in process, a page appears asking you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then continue to type your credentials. Type your email address and password, and then click **Sign In.**
4. In the left navigation pane, click **SERVICE BUS**, and then click the name column of the **BlueYonderServerLab07YourInitials** (Replace _YourInitials_ with your initials) Service Bus.
5. Click **RELAYS**.
6. Verify that **booking** relay is listed.
7. Go back to the Visual Studio 2012 instance with the open **BlueYonder.Companion** solution.
8. On the **View** menu, click **Task List**.
9. In **Task List**, click **Comments** in the drop-down list at the top.
10. Double-click the comment **// TODO: Lab 07 Exercise 1: Task 4.3: Bring back the call to the backend WCF service** _._
11. Uncomment the call to the **CreateReservationOnBackendSystem** method. Make sure the return value of the method is stored in the **confirmationCode** variable.
12. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
13. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure**, and then click **Publish**.
14. In the **Publish Windows Azure Application** dialog box, click **Import**.
15. In the **File name** text box, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod07\LabFiles**, and then click **Open**.
16. Select your publish settings file (the file should have the .publishsettings extension), and then click **Open**.
17. Click **Next**.
18. On the **Common Settings** tab, click the **Cloud Service** box, and then select the cloud service that matches the name you wrote down at the beginning of the lab, after running the setup script.
19. Click **Publish** to start the publishing process.
20. If a **Deployment Environment In Use** dialog box appears, click **Replace**. This might take several minutes to complete.
21. Switch to the Visual Studio 2012 instance with the open **BlueYonder.Server** solution.
22. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.BookingService.Implementation** project, and then double-click **BookingService.cs**.
23. In the **CreateReservation** method, right-click the line of code that starts with **if(request.DepartureFlight**, point to **Breakpoint** , and then click **Insert Breakpoint**.
24. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
25. To start debugging the WCF application, press F5.
26. Sign in to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** as **Admin** with the password **Pa$$w0rd**.
27. On the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
28. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
29. In the **File name** text box, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod07\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client\BlueYonder.Companion.Client.sln**, and then click **Open**.
30. If you are prompted by a **Developers License** dialog box, click **I Agree**.
31. If you are prompted by a **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
32. Type your email address and a password in the **Windows Security** dialog box,and then click **Sign in**.
33. Click **Close** in the **Developers License** dialog box.

   >**Note:** If you do not have valid email address, click **Sign up**, and then register for the service.  
   Write down these credentials and use them whenever an email account is required.

34. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, and then double-click **Addresses.cs**.
35. In the **Addresses** class, locate the **BaseUri** property, and then replace the **{CloudService}** string with the Azure Cloud Service name you noted at the beginning of this lab.
36. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.
37. To start the client app without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.
38. If you are prompted to allow the app to run in the background, click **Allow**.
39. Display the app bar by right clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen.
40. Click **Search**, and then in the **Search** text box, type **New**.
41. If you are prompted to allow the app to share your location, click **Allow**.
42. Wait for the app to show a list of flights from Seattle to New York.
43. Click **Purchase this trip**.
44. In the **First Name** text box, type your first name.
45. In the **Last Name** text box, type your last name.
46. In the **Passport** text box, type **Aa1234567**.
47. In the **Mobile Phone** text box, type **555-5555555**.
48. In the **Home Address** text box, type **423 Main St.**
49. In the **Email Address** text box, type your email address.
50. Click **Purchase**.
51. Go back to the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine, to the Visual Studio 2012 instance with the open **BlueYonder.Server** solution.
52. Note that the code execution breaks, and the line in breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
53. To resume execution, press F5.
54. Go back to the **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** virtual machine, to the client app.
55. To close the confirmation message, click **Close**, and then close the client app.
56. Go back to the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine.
57. Return to Visual Studio 2012 where the **BlueYonder.Server** solution is open, and then press Shift+F5 to stop debugging the WCF application.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully run the client app to book a flight, and have the ASP.NET Web API services, running in the Azure Web Role, communicate with the on-premises WCF services by using Azure Service Bus Relays.

### Exercise 2: Publishing Flight Updates to Clients by using Azure Service Bus Queues

#### Task 1: Send flight update messages to the Service Bus Queue

1. On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.
2. Go to the Microsoft Azure portal at **http://manage.windowsazure.com**.
3. If a page appears, asking for your email address, type your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the **Sign In** page to appear, type your email address and password, and then click **Sign In.**

   >**Note:** If during the sign-in process, a page appears asking you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then continue to type your credentials.

4. In the navigation pane, click **SERVICE BUS**, and then click the name of the Service Bus namespace you created in the previous exercise.
5. At the bottom of the page, click **CONNECTION INFORMATION**.
6. Point to the connection string text that starts with **Endpoint=**
7. Click the **Copy** icon to the right side of the text.
8. If you are prompted to allow access to your clipboard, click **Allow access**.
9. Return to Visual Studio 2012 where the **BlueYonder.Companion** solution is open.
10. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, expand the **Roles** folder, and then double-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** web role.
11. Click the **Settings** tab, and then click **Add Setting**.
12. Configure the setting with the following information:

    - Name: **Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString**
    - Type: **String**
    - Value: Press Ctrl+V to paste the Service Bus connection string you copied from the portal.

13. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
14. In the **Solution Explorer**, expand **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project node, and then double-click **ServiceBusQueueHelper.cs** to open it.
15. Replace the **return null** statement in the **ConnectToQueue** method with the following code.

  ```cs
        string connectionString = CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString");
        var namespaceManager = NamespaceManager.CreateFromConnectionString(connectionString);
```
16. Add the following code to the end of the method to create the queue if it does not exist.

  ```cs
        if (!namespaceManager.QueueExists(QueueName))
        {
           namespaceManager.CreateQueue(QueueName);
        }
```
17. Add the following code to the end of the method to return a **QueueClient** object.

  ```cs
        return QueueClient.CreateFromConnectionString(connectionString, QueueName);
```
18. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
19. In **Solution Explorer**, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, double-click **FlightsController.cs**.
20. Add the following **using** directive to the beginning of the file.

  ```cs
        using Microsoft.ServiceBus.Messaging;
```
21. Add the following static field to the class.

  ```cs
        private static QueueClient Client;
```
22. Create a static constructor in the class by adding the following code to it.

  ```cs
        static FlightsController()
        {
            Client = ServiceBusQueueHelper.ConnectToQueue();
        }
```
23. Locate the **Put** method.
24. Place the following code after the comment **// TODO: Lab07, Exercise 2, Task 1.6 : Send a flight update message to the queue**.

  ```cs
        updatedSchedule.FlightId = id;
        var msg = new BrokeredMessage(updatedSchedule);
        msg.ContentType = "UpdatedSchedule";
        Client.Send(msg);
```
25. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
26. In **Solution Explorer**, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, double-click **NotificationsController.cs**.
27. Explore the content of the **Register** method and the static constructor of the **NotificationsController**. It follows the same pattern of creating a **QueueClient** object in the static constructor and then sending the update messages by using the **BrokeredMessage** is applied to this controller.

    >**Note:** The **Register** method subscribes clients to flight update notifications. When a flight update message is sent to the queue, every subscribed client waiting for that flight will be notified by using the Windows Push Notification Services (WNS).

#### Task 2: Create a Azure Worker role that receives messages from a Service Bus Queue

1. In **Solution Explorer**, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, right-click **Roles**, then point to **Add**, and then click **New Worker Role Project**.
2. In the **Add New .NET Framework 4.5 Role Project** dialog box, click **Worker Role with Service Bus Queue**.
3. In the **Name** text box, type **BlueYonder.Companion.WNS.WorkerRole**, and then click **Add**.
4. In **Solution Explorer**, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, under the **Roles** folder, double-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** web role.
5. Click the **Settings** tab. In the **Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString** setting row, click the **Value** cell, and then press Ctrl+C.
6. In **Solution Explorer**, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, under the **Roles** folder, double-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.WNS.WorkerRole** worker role.
7. Click the **Settings** tab. In the **Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString** setting row, click the **Value** cell, and then press Ctrl+V.
8. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.

#### Task 3: Handle the subscription and update messages

1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the root solution node, point to **Add**, and then click **Existing Project**.
2. In the **Add Existing Project** dialog box, go to **D:\Allfiles\Mod07\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Companion.WNS**, select **BlueYonder.Companion.WNS.csproj** , and then click **Open**.

   >**Note:** The **BlueYonder.Companion.WNS** project includes code that handles WNS subscriptions and notifications. WNS is out of scope of this course; however, you can open the project&#39;s code and observe how WNS is used.

3. In **Solution Explorer**, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, double-click **Web.config**.
4. Select the entire **&lt;connectionStrings&gt;** element, and then press Ctrl+C to copy the connection string to the clipboard.
5. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.WNS.WorkerRole** project, and then double-click **App.config**.
6. Place the text cursor between the **&lt;configuration&gt;** and **&lt;system.diagnostics&gt;** tags, and then press Ctrl+V to paste the connection string in the configuration.
7. Locate the **&lt;appSettings&gt;** element, and then add the following configuration to it.

  ```cs
       <add key="ClientSecret" value="1r7Bt7zllZLfDM4W4Q7BxAZEze2qnvuN" />
       <add key="PackageSID" value="ms-app://s-1-15-2-1252400722-2342768715-2725817281-1266214681-2802664595-2493784738-901281077" />
```
8. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.

   >**Note:** You can find the above configuration in the **WnsConfiguration.xml** file, under the lab&#39;s **Assets** folder.  
The **ClientSecret** and **PackageSID** settings were retrieved by the Windows 8 client team during the upload process of the client app to the Windows Store.

9. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.WNS.WorkerRole** project, and then click **Add Reference**.
10. In the **Reference Manager** dialog box, in the pane on the left side, click **Solution**.
11. In the pane on the right side, point to each of the following projects, and select the check box next to the project name:

    - **BlueYonder.Companion.WNS**
    - **BlueYonder.Companion.Entities**
    - **BlueYonder.DataAccess.Interfaces**
    - **BlueYonder.DataAccess**
    - **BlueYonder.Entities**

12. Click **OK** to add the references.
13. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.WNS.WorkerRole** project, point to **Add** , and then click **Existing Item**.
14. In the **File name** text box, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod07\LabFiles\Assets**, and then press **Enter**.
15. Select **MessageHandler.cs** from the file list, and then click **Add**.

   >**Note:** The **MessageHandler** class contains the code to subscribe clients to WNS and send notifications to clients when their flights are rescheduled.

16. In **Solution Explorer**, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.WNS.WorkerRole** project, double-click **WorkerRole.cs**.
17. Add the following code to the beginning of the **OnStart** method.

  ```cs
        WNSManager.Authenticate();
```
18. In the **WorkerRole** class, locate the **QueueName** constant, and change its string value from **ProcessingQueue** to **FlightUpdatesQueue**.
19. Add the following **using** directives to the beginning of the file.

  ```cs
        using BlueYonder.Companion.Entities;
        using BlueYonder.Entities;
```
20. In the **WorkerRole** class, locate the **Run** method.
21. Locate the **// Process the message** comment, and then add the following code after the **Trace.Writeline** method.

  ```cs
        switch (receivedMessage.ContentType)
        {
            case "Subscription":
        MessageHandler.CreateSubscription(receivedMessage.GetBody<RegisterNotificationsRequest>());
               break;
            case "UpdatedSchedule":
                MessageHandler.Publish(receivedMessage.GetBody<FlightSchedule>());
               break;
        }
```
22. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
23. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, and then click **Publish**.
24. In the **Publish Windows Azure Application** dialog box, click **Publish**.
25. Click **Publish** to start the publishing process.
26. When a **Deployment Environment In Use** dialog box appears, click **Replace**. The publish process might take several minutes to complete.

#### Task 4: Test the Service Bus Queue with flight update messages

1. Place the two virtual machine windows such that you work in the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** and see the right-hand side of **20487B-SEA-DEV-C**.
2. Go back to the **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** virtual machine, to Visual Studio 2012.
3. Press Ctrl+F5 to start the client app without debugging. The trip you purchased in the previous exercise will show in the **Current Trip** list.
4. Note the date of the trip.
5. Leave the client app open and go back to the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine.
6. On the Start screen, right-click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile, and then click **Open new window**.
7. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
8. In the **File name** text box, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod07\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Companion.FlightsManager.sln**, and then click **Open**.
9. In **Solution Explorer** , expand the **BlueYonder.FlightsManager** project, and then double-click the **Web.config** file.
10. In the **&lt;appSettings&gt;** section, locate the **webapi:BlueYonderCompanionService** key.
11. In the **value** attribute, replace the **{CloudService}** string with the Azure Cloud Service name you noted at the beginning of this lab.
12. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
13. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.FlightsManager** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
14. Press Ctrl+F5 to start the web application. A browser window opens.
15. In the browser window, select **Seattle, Washington United States** from the drop-down list on the left, select **New York, New York United States** from the drop-down list on the right, and then click the **filter** icon.
16. Locate the row for the departure date of your purchased trip.
17. Click the **New Time** cell, select the hour **9:00 AM**, and then click the **Save** icon.
18. Wait for a few seconds, and then note the toast notification in the **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** virtual machine.

   >**Note:** The toast notification should appear in the top-right hand corner of the window.

19. Close the client app in the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-C**.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have run the Flight Manager Web application, updated the flight departure time of a flight you booked in advance in your client app, and received Windows push notifications directly to your computer.

Perform the following steps to apply the **StartingImage** snapshot:

1. On the host computer, click **Start**, point to **Administrative Tools**, and then click **Hyper-V Manager**.
2. In Hyper-V Manager, click **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**, and in the **Snapshots** pane, right-click **StartingImage**, and then click **Apply**.
3. In the **Apply Snapshot** dialog box, click **Apply**.
4. Repeat Step 2 for all the virtual machines that you used in this lab. (excluding **MSL-TMG1**).

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
