# Module 1: Monitoring and Diagnostics

# Lab: Monitoring and Diagnostics

### Exercise 1: Configuring Message Logging

#### Task 1: Open the WCF service configuration editor

1. In the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine, on the Start screen, click **Computer** to open the File Explorer window.
2. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod10\LabFiles\Setup**.
3. Double-click the **setup.cmd** file. When prompted for information, provide it according to the instructions.

   >**Note:** You might see warnings in yellow indicating a mismatch in the versions and obsolete settings. These warnings might appear if there are newer versions of Azure PowerShell cmdlets. If these warnings are followed by a red error message, please inform the instructor, otherwise you can ignore them.

4. Wait for the script to complete successfully, write down the name of the Azure Cloud Service, and press any key to close the window.
5. On the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
6. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
7. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod10\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server**, select the **BlueYonder.Server.sln** file, and then click **Open**.
8. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project.
9. Right-click the **Web.config** file, and then click **Edit WCF Configuration**.
10. When prompted that the **Microsoft.ServiceBus** assembly could not be found, click **Yes**. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod10\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost\bin** select **Microsoft.ServiceBus.dll** and click open. Click **Yes** in the dialog box.

#### Task 2: Configure WCF message logging

1. In the **Configuration** pane, click the **Diagnostics** node, and then click **Enable MessageLogging** under the **MessageLogging** section.
2. In the **Configuration** pane, expand the **Diagnostics** node, and then click the **Message Logging** node.
3. In the **Message Logging** pane, set the **LogEntireMessage** and **LogMessagesAtServiceLevel** settings to **True**. Set the **LogMessagesAtTransportLevel** setting to **False**.
4. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
5. Click **File** on the menu bar, and select **Exit** to close the window.

>**Results**: You can test your changes at the end of the lab.

### Exercise 2: Configuring Azure Diagnostics

#### Task 1: Add trace messages to the ASP.NET Web API service

1. On the Start screen, right-click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile and then click **Open new window**.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod10\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server**, select the **BlueYonder.Companion.sln** file, and then click **Open**.
4. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and double-click **TraceWriter.cs**.
5. Implement the **Trace** method by adding the following code to the method.

  ```cs
       TraceRecord rec = new TraceRecord(request, category, level);
       traceAction(rec);
       string message = string.Format("{0};{1};{2}", rec.Operator, rec.Operation, rec.Message);
       System.Diagnostics.Trace.WriteLine(message, rec.Category);
```
6. Click Ctrl+S to save the changes.
7. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project. Expand the **App_Start** folder, and double-click **WebApiConfig.cs**.
8. Add the following **using** directive to the beginning of the file.

  ```cs
       using System.Web.Http.Tracing;
```
9. Add the following code to the beginning of the **Register** method, before setting the dependency resolver.

  ```cs
       config.Services.Replace(typeof(ITraceWriter), new TraceWriter());
```
10. Click Ctrl+S to save the changes.
11. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, and double-click **ReservationsController.cs**.
12. Add the following **using** directive to the beginning of the file.

  ```cs
        using System.Web.Http.Tracing;
```
13. Add the following code to the **Post** method, after the call to the **Save** method.

  ```cs
        Configuration.Services.GetTraceWriter().Info(Request, "ReservationsController", "New reservation was created: {0}", confirmationCode);
```
14. Click Ctrl+S to save the changes.

#### Task 2: Configure Windows Azure Diagnostics for the Web Role

1. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, expand **Roles**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** role, and click **Properties**.
2. In the Properties window, on the **Configuration** tab, under **Diagnostics**, select the **Custom plan** option, and then click **Edit**.
3. In the **Diagnostics configuration** dialog box, on the **Application logs** tab, change the **Log level** from **Error** to **Verbose**.
4. On the **Log directories** tab, in the **Transfer period** drop-down list, select **1**.
5. In the **Buffer size** text box, type **1024**.
6. In the **Directories** grid, in the **IIS logs** row, type **1024** in the **Directory quota (MB)** column.
7. Click **OK**, and then press Ctrl+S to save the changes to the role configuration.

#### Task 3: Deploy the ASP.NET Web API Application to Windows Azure

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, and then click **Publish**.
2. If you already added your Azure subscription information to Visual Studio 2012, select your subscription from the drop-down list and skip to step 7.
3. In the **Publish Windows Azure Application** dialog box, click the **Sign in to download credentials** hyperlink.
4. If a page appears, asking for your email address, enter your email address and click **Continue**. Wait for the sign in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**

   >**Note:** If during sign in, a page appears asking you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then continue to enter your credentials.

5. The publish settings file is generated, and a **Do you want to open or save...** Internet Explorer dialog box appears at the bottom. Click the arrow within the **Save** button. Select the **Save as** option and specify the following location:
**D:\AllFiles\Mod10\LabFiles**. Click **Save**. If a **Confirm Save As** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.

6. Return to **Publish Windows Azure Application** dialog box in Visual Studio 2012. Click **Import**. Type **D:\AllFiles\Mod10\LabFiles** and select the file that you downloaded in the previous step. Make sure that your subscription is selected under **Choose your subscription** section.
7. Click **Next**.
8. On the **Common Settings** tab, click the **Cloud Service** box, and select the cloud service that matches the name you wrote down in the beginning of the lab, while running the setup script.
9. Click **Publish** to start the publishing process. If a **Deployment Environment In Use** dialog box appears, click **Replace**. The publish process might take several minutes to complete.

#### Task 4: Run the client app to create logs

1. Sign in to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** as **Admin** with the password **Pa$$w0rd**.
2. On the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
3. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
4. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod10\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client**, select the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client.sln** file, and then click **Open**.
5. If you are prompted by a **Developers License** dialog box, click **I Agree**. If you are prompted by a **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**. Type your email address and a password in the **Windows Security** dialog box and then click **Sign in**. Click **Close** in the **Developers License** dialog box.

   >**Note:** If you do not have a valid email address, click **Sign up** and register for the service.
Note these credentials and use them whenever an email account is required.

6. In Solution Explorer, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
7. Locate the **BaseUri** property, and replace the **{CloudService}** string with the Azure cloud service name you noted in the beginning of this lab.
8. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
9. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
10. Press Ctrl+F5 to start the client app without debugging.
11. If you are prompted to allow the app to run in the background, click **Allow**.
12. After the client app starts, display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen.
13. Click **Search**, and in the **Search** box on the right side type **New**. If you are prompted to allow the app to share your location, click **Allow**.
14. Wait for the app to show a list of flights from _Seattle_ to _New York_.
15. Click **Purchase this trip**.
16. In the **First Name** text box, type your first name.
17. In the **Last Name** text box, type your last name.
18. In the **Passport** text box, type **Aa1234567**.
19. In the **Mobile Phone** text box, type **555-5555555**.
20. In the **Home Address** text box, type **423 Main St.**.
21. In the **Email Address** text box, type your email address.
22. Click **Purchase**.
23. Click **Close** to close the confirmation message, and then close the client app.

#### Task 5: View the collected diagnostics data

1. Go back to virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**.
2. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, and then click **Publish**. The **Publish Windows Azure Application** dialog box open with the publish summary.
3. Note the name of the storage account.
4. Click **Cancel**.
5. On the **View** menu, click **Server Explorer**.
6. In Server Explorer, right-click **Windows Azure Storage** and click **Add New Storage Account**.
7. In the **Add New Storage Account** dialog box, select the storage account you have written down in the previous step from the **Account name** drop-down list.
8. Click **OK**.
9. In Server Explorer, under **Windows Azure Storage**, expand the new storage account you added, and then expand **Tables**.
10. Click **Tables**, and double-click **WADLogsTable.**
11. Scroll right and explore the table by looking at the **Message** column which presents the value of the logged events.
12. Look for the message that starts with **ReservationsController**, and then double-click the row to open its details.

   >**Note:** In addition to the trace message your code writes to the log, ASP.NET Web API writes several other infrastructure trace messages.

13. In the **Edit Entity** dialog box, view the message and then click **OK** to close the dialog box.
14. In Server Explorer, under **Windows Azure Storage**, under the new storage account you added, expand **Blobs**.
15. Double-click **wad-iis-logfiles**, and in the container&#39;s file list, double-click the first line to open it in Notepad. If you are prompted to select how to open this type of file, click **More options** and then choose to open the file with Notepad.
16. After the IIS log opens in Notepad, verify that you see the requests for the Travelers, Locations, Flights, and Reservations controllers. Close Notepad.

   >**Note:** It is possible it will take more than a minute from the time the request is sent and until it is logged by IIS. If you do not yet see any logs, or the requests are missing from the log, wait for another minute, refresh the blob container, and then download the log again.

17. On the Start screen, click the **Computer** tile to open File Explorer.
18. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod10\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\blueyonder.server.booking.webhost**, and then double-click **web\_messages.svclog** to open the message logs file in the Service Trace Viewer.
19. Click the **Message** tab in the left pane, and then click the row with **http://blueyonder.server.interfaces/IBookingService/CreateReservation** action.
20. Click the **Message** tab in the bottom-right pane to review the CreateReservation request message. Scroll to the end of the message to view the **&lt;s:Body&gt;** element.
21. In the pane on the left, click the row with **http://blueyonder.server.interfaces/IBookingService/CreateReservationResponse** action.
22. Review the CreateReservationResponse message on the **Message** tab in the bottom-right pane. Scroll to the end of the message to view the **&lt;s:Body&gt;** element.

>**Results**: After you complete the exercise, you will be able to use the client App to purchase a trip, and then view the created log files, for both the Azure deployment and the on-premises WCF service.

Perform the following steps to apply the **StartingImage** snapshot:

1. On the host computer, click **Start**, point to **Administrative Tools**, and then click **Hyper-V Manager**.
2. In Hyper-V Manager, click **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**, and in the **Snapshots** pane, right-click **StartingImage**, and then click **Apply**.
3. In the **Apply Snapshot** dialog box, click **Apply**.
4. Repeat Step 2 for all the virtual machines that you used in this lab. (excluding **MSL-TMG1**).
