# Module 6: Hosting Services

# Lab: Hosting Services

### Exercise 1: Hosting the WCF Services in IIS

#### Task 1: Create a web application project

1. On the Start screen, click **Computer** to open the File Explorer window.
2. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod06\LabFiles\Setup**.
3. Double-click the **setup.cmd** file. Wait for the script to complete successfully and press any key to close the window.
4. On the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
5. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
6. In the **File name** text box, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod06\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Server.sln** , and then click **Open**.
7. On the **File** menu, point to **Add** , and then click **New Project**.
8. In the **Add New Project** dialog box, on the navigation pane, expand the **Installed** node. Expand the **Visual C#** node. Click the **Web** node. Select **ASP.NET Empty Web Application** from the list of templates.
9. In the **Name** text box, type **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost**.
10. In the **Location** text box, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod06\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server**
11. To add the new project, click **OK**.
12. In Visual Studio, on the **Tools** menu, point to **Library Package Manager** , and then click **Package Manager Console**.
13. In **Package Manager Console** , enter the following command and then press Enter.

   ```cs
        install-package EntityFramework -version 6.1.3 -ProjectName BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost
```
14. Wait until Package Manager Console finishes downloading and adding the package

  >**Note:** Other projects in this solution use version 6.1.3 of the EntityFramework NuGet package. To prevent assembly load failures, you are required to use the Package Manager Console, to install that specific package version. ** **

15. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project, and then click **Add Reference**.
16. In the **Reference Manager** dialog box, expand the **Assemblies** node in the pane on the left side. Click **Framework**.
17. Scroll down the assemblies list, point to the **System.ServiceModel** assembly, and select the check box next to the assembly name.
18. In the pane on the left side, click **Solution**.
19. In the pane on the right side, point to each of the following projects, and select the check box next to the project name:

   - **BlueYonder.BookingService.Contracts**
   - **BlueYonder.BookingService.Implementation**
   - **BlueYonder.DataAccess**
   - **BlueYonder.Entities**

20. To add the references, click **OK**.
21. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.Host** project, right-click **FlightScheduleDatabaseInitializer.cs** , and then click **Copy**.
22. In Solution Explorer, right-click **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** , and then click **Paste**.
23. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project, point to **Add** , and then click **New Item**.
24. In the **Add New Item** dialog box, in the pane on the left side, expand the **Installed** node, expand the **Visual C#** node, click the **Web** node, and then click **Global Application Class** in the list of items. To finish, click **Add**.
25. In the **Global.asax.cs** file that opened, add the following **using** directives to the beginning of the file.

   ```cs
        using System.Data.Entity;
        using BlueYonder.DataAccess;
        using BlueYonder.BookingService.Host;
```
26. Locate the **Application\_Start** method, and add the following code to it.

   ```cs
        var dbInitializer = new FlightScheduleDatabaseInitializer();
        dbInitializer.InitializeDatabase(new   
        TravelCompanionContext(BlueYonder.BookingService.Implementation.BookingService.ConnectionName));
```
27. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.

#### Task 2: Configure the web application project to use IIS

1. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.Host** project, and double-click the **App.config** file.

2. To select the contents of the file, press Ctrl+A, and then press Ctrl+C to copy the contents of the **App.config** file to the clipboard,.
3. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project, and open the **Web.config** file.
4. Select all the contents of **Web.config** file by pressing Ctrl+A, and then pressing Delete.
5. To paste the contents of the clipboard in **Web.config** file, press Ctrl+V.
6. Within the **&lt;system.serviceModel&gt;** section group, enter the following configuration.

   ```cs
        <serviceHostingEnvironment>
           <serviceActivations>
        <add service="BlueYonder.BookingService.Implementation.BookingService" relativeAddress="Booking.svc"/>
           </serviceActivations>
        </serviceHostingEnvironment>
```
7. Within the **&lt;configuration&gt;** section, enter the following configuration at the end of the section.

   ```cs
        <system.web>
            <compilation debug="true" targetFramework="4.5" />
            <httpRuntime targetFramework="4.5" />
        </system.web>
```
  >**Note:** Make sure you are adding this code as the last child element of the **&lt;configuration&gt;** element. Adding this code anywhere else within the **Web.Config** file will make the application fail.

8. In the **&lt;system.serviceModel&gt;** section group, locate the **&lt;behaviors&gt;** section, and in it, locate the **&lt;serviceMetadata&gt;** element.
9. Remove the **httpGetUrl** attribute and value from the **&lt;serviceMetadata&gt;** element.
10. In the **&lt;system.serviceModel&gt;** section group, locate the **&lt;services&gt;** section, and in it, locate the **&lt;endpoint&gt;** element.
11. Remove the **address** attribute and value from the **&lt;endpoint&gt;** element.
12. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.

  >**Note:** IIS uses the address of the web application to create the service metadata address and the service endpoint address.

13. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project, and then click **Properties**.
14. On the navigation pane, click the **Web** tab.
15. On the **Web** tab, under the **Servers** section, select the **Use Local IIS Web server** option. Ensure that the **Use IIS Express** check box is not selected. Click **Create Virtual Directory**.
16. Wait for a confirmation message, and click **OK**.
17. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.
18. On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.

#### Task 3: Configure the web applications to support NET.TCP

1. On the Start screen, click the **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** tile.

2. In the **Connections** pane, expand **SEA-DEV12-A (SEA-DEV12-A\Administrator)**.
3. If an **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** dialog box opens asking about the Microsoft Web Platform, click **No**.
4. From the **Connections** pane, expand **Sites** , and then click **Default Web Site**.
5. In the **Actions** pane, click **Bindings**.
6. In the **Site Bindings** dialog box, verify that **net.tcp** binding is listed. To close the **Site Binding** dialog box, click **Close**.

  >**Note:** The site bindings configure which protocols are supported by the IIS Web Site and which port, host name, and IP address are used with each protocol.

7. From the **Connections** pane, expand **Default Web Site**.
8. Click **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost**.
9. In the **Actions** pane, click **Advanced Settings**.
10. In the **Advanced Settings** dialog box, expand the **Behavior** node. In the **Enabled Protocols** box, type **http, net.tcp** (replace the current value).
11. To save the changes, click **OK**.

  >**Note:** In addition to adding net.tcp to the site bindings list, you also need to enable net.tcp for each Web application you host in IIS. By enabling net.tcp, WCF will automatically create an endpoint with NetTcpBinding.

12. On the Start screen, click **Computer** to open File Explorer. Go to **D:\AllFiles** , and double-click the **WcfTestClient** shortcut.
13. In the WCF Test Client application, on the **File** menu, click **Add Service** , and in the **Add Service** dialog box, type  **http://localhost/BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost/Booking.svc** , and then click **OK**. Wait until you see the service and endpoints tree in the pane to the left.
14. Close the **WCF Test Client** application.

>**Results**: You will be able to run the WCF Test Client application and verify if the services are running properly in IIS.

### Exercise 2: Hosting the ASP.NET Web API Services in an Azure Web Role

#### Task 1: Create a new SQL database server and a new cloud service

1. On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.

2. Go to the Microsoft Azure portal at **http://manage.windowsazure.com**.
3. If a page appears, asking for your email address, enter your email address and click **Continue**. Wait for the sign in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

  >**Note:** If during sign in, a page appears asking you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then enter your credentials.

4. Click **SQL DATABASES** in the left navigation pane, and then click **SERVERS** at the top of the page.
5. Click **ADD** at the bottom of the page. In the **CREATE SERVER** dialog box, enter the following information:

  - LOGIN NAME: **BlueYonderAdmin**
  - LOGIN PASSWORD: **Pa$$w0rd**
  - CONFIRM PASSWORD: **Pa$$w0rd**
  - In the **REGION** box, select the region closest to your location.
  - Ensure that the **ENABLE LATEST SQL DATABASE UPDATE (V12)** option is selected.

6. Click the **V** icon at the bottom of the window to create the server, and wait until the server is created.
7. Write down the name of the newly created SQL Database Server. Later in this task, you will embed this name within the connection string.
8. On the **sql databases** page, click the name of the newly created server.
9. Click the **CONFIGURE** tab.
10. In the **allowed ip addresses** section, add a new firewall rule by filling the following information:

  - RULE NAME: **OpenAllIPs**
  - START IP ADDRESS: **0.0.0.0**
  - END IP ADDRESS: **255.255.255.255**

11. Click **Save** at the bottom of the page.

  >**Note:** As a best practice, you should allow only your IP address, or your organization&#39;s IP address range to access the database server. However, in this course, you will use this database server for future labs, and your IP address might change in the meanwhile, therefore you are required to allow access from all IP addresses.

12. Click **NEW** on the lower left of the portal. Click **COMPUTE**. Click **CLOUD SERVICE**. Click **QUICK CREATE**. The **URL** and **REGION** input boxes are displayed on the right side.
13. In the **URL** box, type the following cloud service name: **BlueYonderCompanionYourInitials** (_YourInitials_ contains your initials).
14. In the **REGION** box, select the region closest to your location.
15. Click **CREATE CLOUD SERVICE** at the lower-right corner of the portal. Wait until the cloud service is created.
16. Click **CLOUD SERVICES** in the navigation pane.
17. Click the cloud service that you created in the previous step (the one that named **BlueYonderCompanionYourInitials** (_YourInitials_ contains your initials), and then click **CERTIFICATES** at the top of the page.
18. Click the **UPLOAD** link at the bottom of the page.
19. In the **UPLOAD CERTIFICATE** dialog box, click the **BROWSE FOR FILE** link.
20. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, In the **File name** text box, type **D:\AllFiles\certs\CloudApp.pfx** , and then click **Open.**
21. In the **PASSWORD** text box, type **1**.
22. Click the **V** icon at the right side bottom of the window, and wait for the upload to finish.

  >**Note:** In this lab, the ASP.NET Web API services are accessible through HTTP and HTTPS. To use HTTPS, you need to upload a certificate to the Azure cloud service.

23. On the Start screen, right-click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile, and then click **Open new window** at the bottom.
24. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
25. Type **D:\AllFiles\Mod06\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Companion.sln** in the **File name** box, and then click **Open**.
26. In Solution Explorer, open the **Web.config** file under **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project.
27. Find the **&lt;connectionStrings&gt;** section. Locate the connection string entry, whose **name** attribute is set to  **TravelCompanion**.
28. Locate the two occurrences of **{ServerName}** placeholder in the **connectionString** attribute, select each of them, and replace them with the new SQL Database server name.
29. In the end of the file, locate the **&lt;system.serviceModel&gt;** section group, and in the group, locate the **&lt;client&gt;** section.
30. In the **&lt;client&gt;** section, locate the **&lt;endpoint&gt;** element, and change its **address** attribute value to **net.tcp://localhost/BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost/Booking.svc**.
31. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.

#### Task 2: Add a cloud project to the solution

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host**.

2. Select **Add Windows Azure Cloud Service Project**.
3. Verify that a new **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project was added to the solution and that it has  **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** as its Web Role.

  >**Note:** You can achieve the same result by adding a new Azure Cloud Service project, to the solution, and then manually adding a Web Role Project from an existing project.

4. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project. Expand the **Roles** folder. Double-click the  **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** role.
5. Click the **Certificates** tab.
6. On the **Certificates** tab, click **Add Certificate** , to add a new certificate row with the following information:

  - Name: **BlueYonderCompanionSSL**
  - Store Location: **LocalMachine**
  - Store Name: **My**
  - Click the **Thumbprint** box, and then click the ellipsis. Select the **BlueYonderSSLCloud** certificate, and then click **OK**.

7. From the **Service Configuration** drop- down list at the top of the tab, select **Local**.
8. In the **BlueYonderCompanionSSL** certificate line, click the **Thumbprint** box, and then click the ellipsis. Select the  **BlueYonderSSLDev** certificate, and then click **OK**.
9. From the **Service Configuration** drop-down list at the top of the tab, select **All Configurations**.

  >**Note:** SSL certificates contain the name of the server so that clients can validate the authenticity of the server. Therefore, there are different certificates for the local deployment, and for the cloud deployment.

10. Click the **Endpoints** tab.
11. On the **Endpoints** tab, click **Add Endpoint** , to add a new endpoint row with the following information:

  - Name: **Endpoint2**
  - Type: **Input**
  - Protocol: **https**
  - Public Port: **443**
  - SSL Certificate Name: **BlueYonderCompanionSSL**

12.  To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.
13. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
14. To start the Azure compute emulator without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.
15. When the two web browsers open, verify that they use the addresses http://127.0.0.1:81 and https://127.0.0.1:444.

  >**Note:** The endpoint configuration of the role uses ports 80 and 443 for the HTTP and HTTPS endpoint. However, the local IIS Web server already uses those ports, so the emulator needs to uses different ports.

16. Sign in to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** as **Admin** with the password **Pa$$w0rd**.
17. On the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
18. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
19. In the **File name** text box, type  **D:\AllFiles\Mod06\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client\BlueYonder.Companion.Client.sln** , and then click **Open**.
20. If you are prompted by a **Developers License** dialog box, click **I Agree**. If you are prompted by a **User Account Control**  dialog box, click **Yes**. Type your email address and a password in the **Windows Security** dialog box,and then click **Sign in**. In the **Developers License** dialog box, click **Close**.

  >**Note:** If you do not have a valid email address, click **Sign up** and register for the service.
  Note these credentials and use them whenever a use of an email account is required.

21. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
22. The client app is already configured to use the Azure compute emulator. To start the client app without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.

  >**Note:** Normally, the Azure Emulator is not accessible from other computers on the network. For purposes of testing this lab from a Windows 8 client, a routing module was installed on the server&#39;s IIS, routing the incoming traffic to the emulator.

23. If you are prompted to allow the app to run in the background, click **Allow**.
24. After the client app starts, display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen.
25. Click **Search** , and in the **Search** box on the right side enter **New**. If you are prompted to allow the app to share your location, click **Allow**.
26. Wait for the app to display a list of flights from _Seattle_ to _New York_.
27. Close the client app.
28. Leave Visual Studio 2012 open, and return to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**.

#### Task 3: Deploy the cloud project to Azure

1. On the **View** menu, click **Task List**.

2. In **Task List** , select **Comments** in the drop-down list at the top.
3. Double-click the comments to view the code that was marked and verify that no calls are made to

  - **UpdateReservationOnBackendSystem**
  - **CreateReservationOnBackendSystem**

  >**Note:** Prior to the deployment of the cloud project to Azure, all the on-premises WCF calls were disabled.
  These include calls from the Reservation Controller class and the Trips Controller class.  
  >After you deploy the ASP. NET Web API project to Azure, it cannot call the on-premises WCF service, so for now, the WCF Service calls are disabled. In Module 7, &quot;Windows Azure Service Bus&quot; in Course 20487, you will learn how a cloud application can connect to an on-premises service.

4. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, and then click **Publish**.
5. If you already added your Azure subscription information to Visual Studio 2012, select your subscription from the drop-down list and skip to step 10.
6. In the **Publish Windows Azure Application** dialog box, click the **Sign in to download credentials** hyperlink.
7. If a page appears, asking for your email address, enter your email address and click **Continue**. Wait for the sign in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

  >**Note:** If during sign in, a page appears asking you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then continue to enter your credentials.

8. The publish settings file is generated, and a **Do you want to open or save...** Internet Explorer dialog box appears at the bottom. Click the arrow within the **Save** button. Select the **Save as** option and specify the following location:  
**D:\AllFiles\Mod06\LabFiles**. Click **Save**. If a **Confirm Save As** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.

9. In Visual Studio 2012, return to **Publish Windows Azure Application** dialog box. Click **Import**. Type  **D:\AllFiles\Mod06\LabFiles** and select the file that you downloaded in the previous step, and then click **Open**.
10. Make sure that your subscription is selected under **Choose your subscription** section, and then click **Next**.
11. If the **Create Windows Azure Services** dialog box appears, click **Cancel**.
12. On the **Common Settings** tab, click the **Cloud Service** box. Select **BlueYonderCompanionYourInitials** (_YourInitials_ contains your name&#39;s initials)
13. On **Advanced Settings** tab, click the **Storage Account** box. Select **Create New**. In the **Create Windows Azure Services**  dialog box that opens, enter the following information:

  - Name: **byclyourinitials** (_yourinitials_ contains your name&#39;s initials, in lower-case).
  - Location: select the region closest to your location.

  >**Note:** The abbreviation **bycl** stands for Blue Yonder Companion Labs. An abbreviation is used because storage account names are limited to 24 characters. The abbreviation is in lower-case because storage account names are in lower-case. Windows Azure Storage is covered in depth in Module 9, &quot;Windows Azure Storage&quot; in Course 20487.

14. Click **OK** and wait for the storage account to be created.

  >**Note:** If you get a message saying the service creation failed because you reached your storage account limit, delete one of your existing storage accounts, and then retry the step. If you do not know how to delete a storage account, consult the instructor. ** **

15. In the **Deployment label** box, type **Lab6**.
16. Ensure that the **Append current date and time** check box is not selected.
17. Click **Publish** to start the publishing process. This might take several minutes to complete.

#### Task 4: Test the cloud service against the client application

1. Go back to the **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** virtual machine.

2. In Solution Explorer, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
3. Locate the **BaseUri** property and change the string value to **https://blueyondercompanionYourInitials.cloudapp.net/** (replace _YourInitials_ with your initials).
4. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
5. To start the app without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.
6. If you are prompted to allow the app to run in the background, click **Allow**.
7. After the client app starts, display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen.
8. Click **Search** , and in the **Search** box on the right side, type **New**. If you are prompted to allow the app to share your location, click **Allow**.
9. Wait for the app to display a list of flights from Seattle to New York.
10. Close the client app.

>**Results**: You will verify the application works locally in the Azure compute emulator, and then deploy it to Azure and verify it works there too.

### Exercise 3: Hosting the Flights Management Web Application in an Azure Web App

#### Task 1: Create new Web App in Azure

1. Go back to the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine.

2. On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.
3. Go to the Microsoft Azure portal at **http://manage.windowsazure.com**
4. If a page appears, asking for your email address, enter your email address and click **Continue**. Wait for the Sign In page to appear, enter your email and password, and then click **Sign In**.

  >**Note:** If during sign in, a page appears asking you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then enter your credentials.

5. On the lower-left side of the portal, click **NEW**. Click **COMPUTE**. Select **WEB APP**. Click **QUICK CREATE**.
6. In the **URL** box, enter the following name: **BlueYonderCompanionYourInitials** (_YourInitials_ contains your initials).
7. In the **APP SERVICE PLAN** drop-down list, select **Create new App Service plan**.
8. In the **REGION** drop-down list, select the region closest to your location.
9. At the bottom-right corner of the portal, click **CREATE WEB APP,** and wait for the Web App creation to complete.
10. From the pane on the left side, click **WEB APPS** , and then click the name of your newly created Web App.
11. At the top of the page, click **DASHBOARD**.
12. Under the **QUICK GLANCE** section, click the **Download the publish profile** link.
13. A **Do you want to open or save…** Internet Explorer dialog box appears at the bottom. Click the arrow within the **Save** button, select **Save as** option and specify the following location:  
**D:\AllFiles\Mod06\LabFiles**. Click **Save**.

>**Note:** The publishing profile file includes the information required to publish a Web application to the Web App. This is an alternative publish method to downloading the subscription file, as shown in Lesson 2, &quot;Hosting Services in Windows Azure&quot;, Demo 1, &quot;Hosting in Windows Azure&quot; in Course 20487. The difference is that by importing the subscription file, you can publish to any of the Web Apps managed by your Azure subscription, whereas importing the publish profile file of a Web App will only allow you to publish to that specific Web App.

#### Task 2: Upload the Flights Management web application to the new Web App by using the Microsoft Azure portal

1. On the Start screen, right-click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile, and then click **Open new window** at the bottom.

2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. In the **File name** text box, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod06\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Companion.FlightsManager.sln** ,and then click **Open**.
4. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.FlightsManager** project, and then double-click the **Web.config** file.
5. In the **&lt;appSettings&gt;** section, locate the **webapi:BlueYonderCompanionService** key. In the **value** attribute, substitute the **{YourInitials}** placeholder with initials that you used when you created the Azure cloud service earlier.
6. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
7. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.FlightsManager** project, and then click **Publish**.
8. In the **Publish Web** dialog box, click **Import**.
9. In the **Import Publish Profile** dialog box, click **Browse** , go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod06\LabFiles** , select the file you downloaded in the previous task, click **Open** , and then click **OK**.
10. Click **Publish**. The deployment process starts. When the process is complete Internet Explorer automatically opens with the URL of the deployed site.
12. In the browser, select **Paris, France** from the drop-down list on the left, select **Rome, Italy** from the drop-down list on the right, and then click **Filter**. Verify that you see the flight schedules.

>**Results**: After you publish the flights manager web application, you will open the web application in a browser and verify if it is working properly and is able to communicate with the web role you deployed in the previous exercise.

Perform the following steps to apply the **StartingImage** snapshot:

1. On the host computer, click **Start**, point to **Administrative Tools**, and then click **Hyper-V Manager**.
2. In Hyper-V Manager, click **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**, and in the **Snapshots** pane, right-click **StartingImage**, and then click **Apply**.
3. In the **Apply Snapshot** dialog box, click **Apply**.
4. Repeat Step 2 for all the virtual machines that you used in this lab. (excluding **MSL-TMG1**).
