# Module 11: Identity Management and Access Control

# Lab: Identity Management and Access Control

### Exercise 1: Configuring Microsoft Azure ACS

#### Task 1: Create a new ACS namespace

1. Sign in to the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine and on the Start screen, click the **Computer** tile to open File Explorer.
2. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod11\LabFiles\Setup**.
3. Double-click the **setup.cmd** file. When prompted for information, provide it according to the instructions.

   >**Note:** You might see warnings in yellow indicating a mismatch in the versions and obsolete settings. These warnings might appear if there are newer versions of Azure PowerShell cmdlets. If these warnings are followed by a red error message, please inform the instructor, otherwise you can ignore them.

4. Write down the name of the cloud service that is shown in the script. You will use it later on during the lab.
5. Wait for the script to finish, and then press any key to close the script window.
6. On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.
7. Go to **http://manage.windowsazure.com**.
8. If a page appears, prompting you to type your email address, type your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the **Sign In** page to appear, type your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

   >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account that you previously used, and then continue to type your credentials.

9. If the **Windows Azure Tour** dialog appears, click close (the **X** button).
10. Click **NEW**, click **APP SERVICES**, click **ACTIVE DIRECTORY**, click **ACCESS CONTROL**, and then click **QUICK CREATE**.
11. Type the following values:

    - Namespace: **BlueYonderCompanionYourInitials** (_YourInitials_ will contain your initials).
    - Region:  select the region closest to your location.

12. Click **CREATE**, and wait for the process to complete successfully.


#### Task 2: Configure the Relying Party application

1. Click **ACTIVE DIRECTORY** in the navigation pane, click the **ACCESS CONTROL NAMESAPCES** tab, click the newly created namespace, and then click **MANAGE** on the toolbar. The Access Control Service portal will open.
2. In the **Access Control Service** portal, in the pane on the left, click the **Relying party applications** link under the **Trust relationships** section.
3. In the **Relying Party Applications** pane, click **Add link**.
4. On the **Add Relying Party Application** page, provide the following values:

    - Name: **BlueYonderCloud**
    - Realm: **urn:blueyonder.cloud**
    - Return URL: **https://_CloudServiceName_.cloudapp.net/federationcallback** (_CloudServiceName_ is the name of the cloud service you wrote down in the beginning of the lab while running the setup script)
    - Token format: **SWT**

5. Verify that **Create new rule group** is selected.
6. Under **Token Signing Settings**, click **Generate** to generate a new token signing key.
7. Click **Save** at the bottom of the page.

#### Task 3: Create a rule group

1. In the **Access Control Service** portal, in the pane on the left, click the **Rule groups** link under the **Trust relationships** section.
2. On the **Rule Groups** page, under the **Rule Groups** section, click **Default Rule Group for BlueYonderCloud**.
2. On the **Edit Rule Group** page, click the **Generate** link above the **Rules** section.
3. On the **Generate Rules** page, click **Generate**.
4. On the **Edit Rule Group** page, click **Save**.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created a new ACS namespace and configured an RP for the ASP.NET Web API services. Also you should have tested the RP configuration.

### Exercise 2: Integrating ACS with the ASP.NET Web API Project

#### Task 1: Add the Thinktecture.IdentityModel NuGet package

1. Leave the ACS portal open, and on the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
2. Type **D:\AllFiles\Mod11\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Companion.sln** in the **File name** text box, and then click **Open**.
3. On the **View** menu, point to **Other Windows**, and then click **Package Manager Console**.
4. In Package Manager Console, enter **install-package ThinkTecture.IdentityModel -version 2.2.1 -ProjectName BlueYonder.Companion.Host** in **Package Manager Console** editor, and then press Enter.

   >**Note:** The last known version of the **ThinkTecture.IdentityModel** NuGet package that supports the SWT token is 2.2.1. Therefore, you need to use the Package Manager Console to install this NuGet package, rather than using the **Manage NuGet Packages** dialog box.

#### Task 2: Add token validation to ASP.NET Web API

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, expand the **Roles** folder, and then double-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** web role.
2. Click the **Settings** tab, and then click **Add Settings**.
3. Add a setting with the following information:

    - Name: **ACS.IssuerName**
    - Type: **String**
    - Value: **https://BlueYonderCompanion_YourInitials_.accesscontrol.windows.net/** (_YourInitials_ will contain your initials). Make sure there are no spaces at the end of the string.

4. Add a setting with the following information:

    - Name: **ACS.Realm**
    - Type: **String**
    - Value: **urn:blueyonder.cloud**

5. Return to the **Internet Explorer** window.
6. In the **Internet Explorer** window, return to the ACS portal, and then in the pane on the left, under the **Service settings** section, click the **Certificates and Keys** link.
7. On the **Certificates and Keys** page, click **BlueYonderCloud**, and then click **Show Key**.
8. Select the generated key, and then press Ctrl+C to copy it to the clipboard.
9. Return to Visual Studio 2012 (do not close the browser).
10. In Visual Studio 2012, return to the **Settings** tab, and then click **Add Settings**. Add a new setting with the following information:

    - Name: **ACS.SigningKey**
    - Type: **String**
    - Value: Press Ctrl+V to paste the copied signing key.

11. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
12. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, point to **Add**, and then click **New Folder**.
13. Name the folder **Authentication**, and then press Enter.
14. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **Authentication** folder, point to **Add**, and then click **Class**.
15. In the **Add New Item** dialog box, type **AuthenticationConfig** in the **Name** text box, and then click **Add**.
16. Add the following **using** directive to the beginning of the file.

  ```cs
        using Thinktecture.IdentityModel.Tokens.Http;
```
17. Add the following method to the **AuthenticationConfig** class.

  ```cs
        public static AuthenticationConfiguration CreateConfiguration()
        {
          var config = new AuthenticationConfiguration();
          // Get the SWT configuration from the Web Role configuration
          // Add an SWT authentication support
          // Set defaults
          return config;
        }
```
18. Add the following code after the _// Get the SWT configuration_ comment.

  ```cs
        string issuerName = Microsoft.Azure.CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("ACS.IssuerName").Trim();
        string realm = Microsoft.Azure.CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("ACS.Realm").Trim();
        string signingKey = Microsoft.Azure.CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("ACS.SigningKey").Trim();
```
19. Add the following code after the _// Add an SWT authentication support_ comment.

  ```cs
        config.AddSimpleWebToken(
            issuer: issuerName,
            audience: realm,
            signingKey: signingKey,
            options: AuthenticationOptions.ForAuthorizationHeader("OAuth"));
```
   >**Note:** Realm is the unique identifier of your RP. Audience refers to the realm of the RP that redirected the client to the STS. In most cases, the realm and audience are the same, because you are redirected back to the application you came from. There are scenarios where the RP that got the token is not the same RP that requested the token.  
The **AuthenticationOptions.ForAuthorizationHeader** method sets the value of the HTTP Authorization header that is added to unauthorized responses. The **OAuth** value specifies that OAuth authentication should be used.

20. Add the following code after the _// Set defaults_ comment.

  ```cs
        config.DefaultAuthenticationScheme = "OAuth";
        config.EnableSessionToken = true;
```
21. The resulting code should resemble the following.

  ```cs
        public static AuthenticationConfiguration CreateConfiguration()
        {
            var config = new AuthenticationConfiguration();
            // Get the SWT configuration from the Web Role configuration
            string issuerName = Microsoft.Azure.CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("ACS.IssuerName");
            string realm = Microsoft.Azure.CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("ACS.Realm");
            string signingKey = Microsoft.Azure.CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("ACS.SigningKey");
            // Add an SWT authentication support
            config.AddSimpleWebToken(
                issuer: issuerName,
                audience: realm,
                signingKey: signingKey,
                options: AuthenticationOptions.ForAuthorizationHeader("OAuth"));
            // Set defaults
            config.DefaultAuthenticationScheme = "OAuth";
            config.EnableSessionToken = true;
            return config;
        }
```
22. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.

#### Task 3: Add a federation callback controller

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project node, and then click **Manage NuGet Packages**.
2. In the **Manage NuGet Packages** dialog box, in the navigation pane, expand the **Online** node and then click the **NuGet official package source** node.
3. Press Ctrl+E, and then type **WIF.SWT**.
4. In the packages list, click the **Simple Web Token Support for Windows Identity Foundation** package, and then click **Install**.
5. Wait for installation completion. Click **Close** to close the window
6. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, point to **Add**, and then click **Class**.
7. In the **Add New Item** dialog box, type **FederationCallbackController** in the **Name** text box, and then click **Add**.
8. Add the following **using** directives to the beginning of the file.

  ```cs
       using System.Web.Http;
       using System.Net.Http;
       using System.Net;
       using System.Web;
       using Microsoft.IdentityModel;
```
9. Replace the class declaration with the following code.

  ```cs
       public class FederationCallbackController : ApiController
```
10. Add the following method to the class, to handle active federation with POST requests.

  ```cs
       public HttpResponseMessage Post()
       {
       var response = this.Request.CreateResponse(HttpStatusCode.Redirect);
       response.Headers.Add("Location", @"FederationCallback/end?acsToken=" + HttpContext.Current.User.BootstrapToken());
       return response;
       }
```
   >**Note:** The POST method extracts the token from the request&#39;s body, and returns a message carrying the token in the **Location** HTTP header. The client application can then extract the token from the response and use it to authenticate against the service in future requests.  
The special redirect to **FederationCallback/end** indicates to the client that the authentication process has completed successfully. This message flow is part of the passive federation process.

11. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.
12. Return to the browser window, and then to the ACS portal.
13.  In the ACS portal, in the pane on the left, click **Certificates and Keys** link under the **Service settings** section.
14. In the **Certificates and Keys** page, click **BlueYonderCloud**, and then click **Show Key**.
15. Select the generated key, and then press Ctrl+C to copy it to the clipboard.
16. Return to Visual Studio 2012 (do not close the browser).
17. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, double-click **Web.config**.
18. Locate the **&lt;appSettings&gt;** section, and then in it locate the **&lt;add&gt;** element whose **key** attribute is set to **SwtSigningKey**.
19. Select the value _[your 256-bit symmetric key configured in the STS/ACS]_, and then press Ctrl+V to replace it with the token signing key you copied from the portal.
20. Locate the **&lt;microsoft.identityModel&gt;** section at the end of the file, and then in it, locate the **&lt;audienceUris&gt;** element.
21. Replace the **&lt;add&gt;** element with the following configuration.

  ```cs
        <add value="urn:blueyonder.cloud" />
```
   >**Note:** WIF 4.5 uses the **&lt;system.identityModel&gt;** section. However, the WIF.SWT NuGet package you installed still uses WIF 4, which uses the **&lt;microsoft.identityModel&gt;** section.

22. Locate the **&lt;trustedIssuers&gt;** element, and then replace the string _[youracsnamespace]_ with **blueyondercompanion_yourinitials_** (_yourinitials_ will contain your initials). Make sure the string you type is in lowercase letters.
23. Add the following configuration between the **&lt;service&gt;** and **&lt;audienceUris&gt;** tags.

  ```cs
        <federatedAuthentication>
          <wsFederation passiveRedirectEnabled="false" issuer="urn:unused" realm="urn:unused" requireHttps="false" />
        </federatedAuthentication>
```
24. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.
25. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, expand the **References** folder.
26. Click **Microsoft.IdentityModel**, and then in the **Properties** window, change **Copy Local** to **True**.

   >**Note:** WIF 4 is not installed by default in Azure VMs. Therefore, you need to make sure that the assembly is included in the deployed package.

#### Task 4: Update the Routing with the New Authentication Configuration

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, expand **App_Start**, and then double-click **WebApiConfig.cs**.
2. Add the following **using** directive to the beginning of the file.

  ```cs
       using Thinktecture.IdentityModel.Tokens.Http;
```
3. Add the following code to the **Register** static method, before the first call to the **MapHttpRoute** method.

  ```cs
       config.Routes.MapHttpRoute(
           name: "callback",
           routeTemplate: "FederationCallback",
           defaults: new { Controller = "FederationCallback" });
```
   >**Note:** The order of routes is important; you must add the federation callback route before adding the default route (**{controller}/{id}**) which handles all the other calls to the controllers. If you add the default route first, it will be used even when you use a URL that ends with **FederationCallback**.

4. Add the following **using** directive to the beginning of the file.

  ```cs
       using BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Authentication;
```
5. Create a new authentication configuration by adding the following code to the beginning of the **Register** method.

  ```cs
       AuthenticationConfiguration authenticationConfig = AuthenticationConfig.CreateConfiguration();
```
6. Locate the call to the **MapHttpRoute** method, which uses the name **TravelerReservationsApi**. Replace the method call with the following code.

       config.Routes.MapHttpRoute(
           name: "TravelerReservationsApi",
           routeTemplate: "travelers/{travelerId}/reservations",
           defaults: new
           {
               controller = "reservations",
               id = RouteParameter.Optional
           },
           constraints:null,
           handler: new AuthenticationHandler(authenticationConfig, GlobalConfiguration.Configuration));

7. Locate the call to the **MapHttpRoute** method, which uses the name **ReservationApi**. Replace the method call with the following code.

  ```cs
       config.Routes.MapHttpRoute(
           name: "ReservationsApi",
           routeTemplate: "Reservations/{id}",
           defaults: new
           {
               controller = "Reservations",
               action = "GetReservation"
           },
           constraints: new
           {
               httpMethod = new HttpMethodConstraint(HttpMethod.Get)
           },
           handler: new AuthenticationHandler(authenticationConfig, GlobalConfiguration.Configuration));
```
8. Locate the call to the **MapHttpRoute** method, which uses the name **DefaultApi**. Replace the method call with the following code.

  ```cs
       config.Routes.MapHttpRoute(
               name: "DefaultApi",
               routeTemplate: "{controller}/{id}",
               defaults: new { id = RouteParameter.Optional },
               constraints:null,
               handler: new AuthenticationHandler(authenticationConfig, GlobalConfiguration.Configuration));
```
   >**Note:** The authentication handler is not used for the first two routes you just added, because the requests to the **FederationCallback** controller are sent before the client is authenticated. The authentication handler is not used for the location&#39;s weather route because the **GetWeather** action is public and does not require any authentication.

9. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.

#### Task 5: Decorate the ASP.NET Web API controllers for authorization

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, and double-click **ReservationsController.cs**.
2. Decorate the class with the **[Authorize]** attribute. The resulting code should resemble the following.

  ```cs
       [Authorize]
       public class ReservationsController : ApiController
       {
       ...
       }
```
3. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.
4. Repeat the same process for the **TravelersController.cs** and the **TripsController.cs** files.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured your ASP.NET Web API services to use claims-based identities, authenticate users, and authorize users. Also you should have tested this configuration.

### Exercise 3: Deploying the Web Application to Azure and Configuring the Client App

Task 1: Deploy the Web Application to Windows Azure

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, and then click **Publish**.
2. If your subscription is already listed in the subscriptions drop down list, skip to the next task, otherwise continue.
3. In the **Publish Windows Azure Application** dialog box, click the **Sign in to download credentials** hyperlink.
4. If a page appears, asking for your email address, type your email address and click **Continue**. Wait for the sign in page to appear, type your email address and password, and then click **Sign In.**

   >**Note:** If during sign in, a page appears asking you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then continue to enter your credentials.

5. The publish settings file is generated, and the **&quot;Do you want to open or save...&quot;** message appears at the bottom of the **Internet Explorer** window.
6. Click arrow within the **Save** button, select the **Save as** option, specify the following location:
**D:\AllFiles\Mod11\LabFiles**, and then click **Save**.

7. If a **Confirm Save As** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.
8. Return to **Publish Windows Azure Application** window in **Visual Studio 2012**, click **Import**, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod11\LabFiles**, and then select the .publishsettings file that you downloaded in the previous step. Make sure that your subscription is selected under **Choose your subscription** section.
9. Click **Next**.
10. On the **Common Settings** tab, click the **Cloud Service** drop-down, and then select the cloud service that matches the name you wrote down in the beginning of the lab, after running the setup script.
11. Click **Publish** to start the publishing process. If a **Deployment Environment In Use** dialog box appears, click **Replace**. The publish process might take several minutes to complete.

#### Task 2: Configure the client app for authentication

1. In the **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** virtual machine,on the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. Type **D:\AllFiles\Mod11\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client\BlueYonder.Companion.Client.sln** in the **File name** text box, and then click **Open**.
4. If you are prompted by a **Developers License** dialog box, click **I Agree**.
5. If you are prompted by a **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**, type your email address and a password in the **Windows Security** dialog box and then click **Sign in**.
6. Click **Close** in the **Developers License** dialog box.

    >**Note:** If you do not have valid email address, click **Sign up** and register for the service.  
Write down these credentials and use them whenever a use of an email account is required.

7. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
8. Locate the **BaseUri** property, and then replace the **{CloudService}** string with the Azure Cloud Service name you wrote down at the beginning of this lab.
9. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
10. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project, expand **Helpers**, and then double-click **DataManager.cs**.
11. In the **DataManager** class, locate the private constant named **AcsNamespace**, and then set its value to **BlueYonderCompanion_YourInitials_** (_YourInitials_ will contain your initials).
12. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.

    >**Note:** The client is already configured to use the _blueyonder.cloud_ realm.

#### Task 3: Examine the Client Code That Manages the Authentication Process

1. Locate the **GetLiveIdUri** method, and examine its code. The method sends a request to the ACS to request the list of identity providers, and returns the address of the first identity provider.

   >**Note:** The ACS namespace you created automatically has the Microsoft Account (formerly Windows Live ID) identity provider.

2. Locate the **AuthenticateAsync** method, and examine its code. The method uses the **WebAuthenticationBroker** class to authenticate the client with the Microsoft Account (formerly Windows Live ID) identity provider, and then sends the token to the ASP.NET Web API **FederationCallback** controller for authentication.
3. Locate the **GetSessionToken** method and examine its code. The method uses the SWT returned from the federation callback to perform a session handshake with the ASP.NET Web API service. The service returns a session token, which is then stored in the static **Token** field.
4. Locate the **CreateHttpClient** method and examine its code. The method creates an HTTP request and adds the HTTP **Authorization** header with the stored token.
5. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
6. Press Ctrl+F5 to start the client without debugging.
7. Wait for the **Connecting to a service** page to show, type your email address and password, and then click **Sign in**.
8. Wait until the connection is complete and you see the main window of the app.
9. Right-click the screen to open the app bar, and click **Log out**.
10. Close the client app.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should be able to successfully run the client app, and sign in by using your Microsoft Account credentials.

Perform the following steps to apply the **StartingImage** snapshot:

1. On the host computer, click **Start**, point to **Administrative Tools**, and then click **Hyper-V Manager**.
2. In Hyper-V Manager, click **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**, and in the **Snapshots** pane, right-click **StartingImage**, and then click **Apply**.
3. In the **Apply Snapshot** dialog box, click **Apply**.
4. Repeat Step 2 for all the virtual machines that you used in this lab. (excluding **MSL-TMG1**).

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
