# Module 8: Deploying Services

# Lab: Deploying Services

### Exercise 1: Deploying an Updated Service to Azure

#### Task 1: Add the new weather updates service to the ASP.NET Web API project

1. On the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine, on the **Start** screen, click the **Computer** tile to open File Explorer.
2. Go to **D:\AllFiles\Mod08\LabFiles\Setup**.
3. Double-click the **setup.cmd** file. When prompted for information, provide it according to the instructions.

   >**Note:** You might see a warning saying that the client model does not match the server model. This warning might appear if there are newer versions of the Microsoft Azure PowerShell cmdlets. If this message is followed by an error message, please inform the instructor, otherwise you can ignore the warning.

4. Wait for the deployment to complete successfully, write down the names of the Azure Service Bus namespace and Azure cloud service, and press any key to close the window.
5. On the **Start** screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
6. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
7. Type **D:\AllFiles\Mod08\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Companion.sln** in the **File name** box, and then click **Open**.
8. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, and then click **Package**.
9. In the **Package**** Windows Azure Application **dialog box, select** Cloud **in the** Service configuration **drop-down list, select** Debug **in the** Build configuration **drop-down list, and then click** Package**.
10. Wait for the packaging process to complete, and then close FileExplorer that opened.
11. On the **Start** screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.
12. Go to the Azure portal at http://manage.windowsazure.com.
13. If a page appears, prompting for your email address, enter your email address and click **Continue**. Wait for the sign-in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

   >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then enter your credentials.

14. In the navigation pane, click **CLOUD SERVICES**, and in the **Cloud Services** list, click the name of the cloud service you wrote down at the beginning of this lab.
15. On the cloud service **DASHBOARD** tab, click **PRODUCTION**, and then click **Update** or **Upload** at the bottom of the page (only one of the buttons should be visible).
16. In the dialog box that opens, enter **Lab08** in the **DEPLOYMENT**** LABEL** box.
17. Under **PACKAGE** , click **FROM LOCAL**, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod08\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure\bin\Debug\app.publish\BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure.cspkg** , and then click **Open**.
18. Under **CONFIGURATION** , click **FROM LOCAL**, select **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg** from the file list, and then click **Open**.
19. Select the **Deploy even if one or more roles contain a single instance** check box or the **Update even if one or more roles contain a single instance** check box (only one of the check boxes will be visible), and then click **V** (the icon at the lower-right corner of the dialog box).
20. Click the **INSTANCES** tab, wait for the new instance to appear in the list, and then wait until its status changes to **Running**.
21. Close Internet Explorer, and return to Visual Studio 2012.
22. In Solution Explorer, expand **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, and then double-click **LocationController.cs** to open it.
23. Locate the **GetWeather** method and replace its code with the following code.

  ```cs
		var service = new WeatherService();
        Location location = Locations.GetSingle(locationId);
        return service.GetWeather(location, date);
```
24. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
25. On the **View** menu, click **Task List**.
26. In **Task List**, select **Comments** from the drop-down list at the top.
27. In **Task List**, double-click the comment **// TODO: Lab 08: Exercise 1: Task 1.5: Add route for the weather updates**, and then verify that the **WebApiConfig.cs** file opens.
28. Add the following code under the comment.

  ```cs
		config.Routes.MapHttpRoute(
           name: "LocationWeatherApi",
           routeTemplate: "locations/{locationId}/weather",
           defaults: new
           {
              controller = "locations",
              action = "GetWeather"
           },
           constraints: new
           {
              httpMethod = new HttpMethodConstraint(HttpMethod.Get)
           }
        );
```
29. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.

#### Task 2: Deploy the updated project to the staging environment by using the Azure portal

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure** project, and then click **Package**.

2. In the **Windows Azure Application** package, select **Cloud** in the **Service configuration** drop-down list, select **Debug** in the **Build configuration** drop-down list, and then click **Package**.
3. Wait for the packaging process to complete, and then close File Explorer.
4. On the **Start** screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.
5. Go to the Azure portal at http://manage.windowsazure.com.
6. If a page appears, prompting for your email address, enter your email address and click **Continue**. Wait for the sign-in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

   >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then enter your credentials.

7. In the navigation pane, click **CLOUD SERVICES**, and in the **Cloud Services** list, click the name of the cloud service you wrote down at the beginning of this lab.
8. On the cloud service **DASHBOARD** tab, click **STAGING**, and then click **UPLOAD A NEW STAGING DEPLOYMENT**.
9. In the **Upload a package** dialog box, enter **Lab08** in the **DEPLOYMENT**** LABEL** box.
10. Under **PACKAGE**, click **FROM LOCAL**, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod08\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure\bin\Debug\app.publish\BlueYonder.Companion.Host.Azure.cspkg**, and then click **Open**.
11. Under **CONFIGURATION**, click **FROM LOCAL**, select **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg** from the file list, and then click **Open**.
12. Select the **Deploy even if one or more roles contain a single instance** check box, and then click **V** (the icon at the lower-right corner of the dialog box).
13. Click the **INSTANCES** tab, wait for the new instance to appear in the list, and then wait until its status changes to **Running**.

   >**Note:** You are performing the same procedure as you did in Task 1 of this exercise, with one difference: you are deploying to the **Staging** environment and not to the **Production** environment.

   >**Note:** It might take several minutes until the instance starts to run.

#### Task 3: Test the client app with the production and staging deployments

1. On the **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** virtual machine, on the **Start** screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.

2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. Type **D:\AllFiles\Mod08\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client\BlueYonder.Companion.Client.sln** in the **File name** box, and then click **Open**.
4. If you are prompted by a **Developers License** dialog box, click **I Agree**. If you are prompted by a **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**. Type your email address and a password in the **Windows Security** dialog boxand then click **Sign in**. Click **Close** in the **Developers License** dialog box.

   >**Note:** If you do not have valid email address, click **Sign up** and register for the service.  
   >Write down these credentials and use them whenever a use of an e-mail account is required.

5. In Solution Explorer, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
6. Locate the **BaseUri** property, and replace the **{CloudService}** string with the name of the Azure cloud service you wrote down at the beginning of this lab.
7. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
8. To start the client app without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.
9. If you are prompted to allow the app to run in the background, click **Allow**.
10. Display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen.
11. Click **Search** , and in the **Search** box on the right side, enter **New**. If you are prompted to allow the app to share your location, click **Allow**.
12. Wait for the app to show a list of flights from Seattle to New York.
13. Click **Purchase this trip**.
14. In the **First Name** box, enter your first name.
15. In the **Last Name** box, enter your last name.
16. In the **Passport** box, type **Aa1234567**.
17. In the **Mobile Phone** box, type **555-5555555**.
18. In the **Home**** Address **box, type** 423 ****Main St.**.
19. In the **Email Address** box, enter your email address.
20. Click **Purchase**.
21. To close the confirmation message, click **Close**.
22. Verify that the weather forecast does not display the temperature, but displays only the Fahrenheit sign.
23. Close the client app.
24. Go to the Azure portal at http://manage.windowsazure.com.
25. If a page appears, prompting for your email address, enter your email address and click **Continue**. Wait for the sign-in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

   >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then enter your credentials.

26. In the navigation pane, click **CLOUD SERVICES** , and in the **Cloud Services** list, click the name of the cloud serviceyouwrote down at the beginning of this lab.
27. On the cloud service **DASHBOARD** tab, click **STAGING** , in the **quick glance** pane on the right side, right-click the link below **SITE URL** , and then click **Copy shortcut**.
28. Return to Visual Studio 2012. In Solution Explorer, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
29. Switch the comments between the two **BaseUri**** get** implementations by placing the production URL in the comment and removing the comment from the staging URL. The resulting code should resemble the following:

  ```cs
		public static string BaseUri
        {
           //get { return "http://{CloudService}.cloudapp.net/"; } // production
           get { return "{StagingAddress}"; } // staging
        }
```
   >**Note: {CloudService}** is replaced with the name of the cloud service that was shown at the beginning of the lab.

30. In the **BaseUri** property, select the value **{StagingAddress}** , and then press Ctrl+V to paste the copied staging deployment address over it.
31. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
32. To start the client app without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.
33. After the app starts, verify that the weather forecast appears for the current trip.
34. Close the client app.

   >**Note:** The staging and the production deployments share their databases, which is why the current trip, which you created with the production deployment, appears when you connect to the staging deployment.

#### Task 4: Perform a VIP Swap by using the Azure portal and retest the client app

1. Return to Internet Explorer, and then click **SWAP** on the taskbar at the bottom.

2. In the dialog box, click **YES**, and wait until the **SWAP** completes.
3. Leave the browser open, and return to Visual Studio 2012.
4. If the **Addresses.cs** file is not opened, in Solution Explorer, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
5. Locate the two **BaseUri** get implementations (one of them is in the comments), and place the implementation containing the staging URL in the comments.
6. Remove the comment from the implementation that uses the production URL.
7. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
8. To start the client app without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.
9. After the app starts, verify that the weather forecast appears for the current trip.
10. Close the client app.
11. Return to Internet Explorer, move the pointer over **DELETE** on the taskbar at the bottom, and then click **Delete staging deployment**. Click **YES**, and wait until the message &quot;You have nothing deployed to the staging environment&quot; appears.

   >**Note:** After you ensure that the production deployment is running successully, we recommend that you delete the staging deployment to reduce the compute-hour charges.

   >**Results** : After you complete this exercise, the client app will retrieve weather forecast information from the production deployment in Azure.

### Exercise 2: Exporting and Importing an IIS Deployment Package

#### Task 1: Export the web applications containing the WCF booking and frequent flyer services

1. On the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine, n the **Start** screen, click the **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** tile.

2. In the **Connections** pane, expand **SEA-DEV12-A (SEA-DEV12-A\Administrator)**.
3. If an **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** dialog box appears prompting you to use the Microsoft Web Platform, click **No**.
4. In the **Connection** pane, expand **Sites**, and then click **Default Web Site**.
5. In the **Actions** pane, click **Export Application**.
6. In the **Export Application Package** dialog box, click **Manage Components**.
7. In the **Manage Components** dialog box, select the first line in the grid, click **Remove**, and then click **Yes** to confirm the deletion of the selected entry.
8. Add a line to the grid by using the following settings:

   - Provider Name: **appHostConfig**
   - Path: **Default Web Site/BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost**

9. Add a line to the grid by using the following settings:

  - Provider Name: **appHostConfig**
  - Path: **Default Web Site/BlueYonder.Server.FrequentFlyer.WebHost**

10. Add a line to the grid by using the following settings:

  - Provider Name: **appPoolConfig**
  - Path: **DefaultAppPool**

11. Click **OK** to close the **Manage Components** dialog box.
12. Click **Next** twice, type **C:\backup.zip** in the **Package**** path **box, and then click** Next**.
13. Wait for the export to be created, and then click **Finish**.
14. Close the Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager
15. On the **Start** screen, click the **Computer** tile to pen File Explorer, and go to **C:\**.
16. Select the **backup.zip** file, and then press Ctrl+C to copy the file.
17. In File Explorer, go to **\\10.10.0.11\c$** , and then press Ctrl+V to paste the file.

#### Task 2: Import the deployment package to a second server

1. On the **20487B-SEA-DEV-B** virtual machine, on the **Start** screen, click the **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** tile.

2. In the **Connections** pane, expand **SEA-DEV12-B (SEA-DEV12-B\Administrator)**.
3. If an **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** dialog appears prompting you to use the Microsoft Web Platform, click **No**.
4. In the **Connection** pane, expand **Sites**, and then click **Default Web Site**.
5. In the **Actions** pane, click **Import Application**.
6. In the **Import Application Package** dialog box, type **C:\backup.zip** in the **Package path** box, and then click **Next**.
7. In the **Web Application Physical Path (/BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost/)** box, change the physical path to **C:\Services\BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost**.
8. In the **Web Application Physical Path (/BlueYonder.Server.FrequentFlyer.WebHost/)** box, change the physical path to **C:\Services\BlueYonder.Server.FrequentFlyer.WebHost**.
9. Click **Next** , wait for the package to be installed, and then click **Finish**.
10. Close IIS Manager, and on the **Start** screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.
11. Go to the Azure portal at http://manage.windowsazure.com.
12. If a page appears, prompting for your email address, enter your email address and click **Continue**. Wait for the sign-in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

   >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then enter your credentials.

13. In the navigation pane, click **SERVICE BUS** , and then click the Service Bus namespace you wrote down at the beginning of this lab in the right pane. Click the **RELAYS** tab and verify that that are two listeners for the **booking** relay.

   >**Results** : As soon as both the servers are online, they will listen to the same Service Bus relay and will be load balanced. You will verify that both servers are listening by checking the Service Bus relay listener&#39;s information supplied by Service Bus in the Azure portal.