# Module 3: Creating and Consuming ASP.NET Web API Services

# Lab: Creating the Travel Reservation ASP.NET Web API Service

### Exercise 1: Creating an ASP.NET Web API Service

#### Task 1: Create a new API Controller for the Traveler Entity

1. Sign in to the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine and on the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. Type D:\AllFiles\Mod03\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion\BlueYonder.Companion.sln in the File name text box, and then click Open.
4. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project node, point to **Add** , and then click **Class.**
5. In the **Add New Item** window type **TravelersController** in the **Name** text box, and then click **Add**.
6. Add the following **using** directives at the beginning of the class.

        ```cs
        using System.Web.Http;
        using BlueYonder.DataAccess.Interfaces;
        using BlueYonder.DataAccess.Repositories;
        using System.Net.Http;
        using BlueYonder.Entities;
        using System.Net;
```

7. Replace the class declaration with the following code.

        ```cs
        public class TravelersController : ApiController
```

8. Add the following property to the **TravelersController** class.

        ```cs
        private ITravelerRepository Travelers { get; set; }
```

9. Add the following constructor code to the class.

        ```cs
        public TravelersController()
        {
        Travelers = new TravelerRepository();
        }
```

10. Create a public method called **Get** by adding the following code.

        ```cs
        public HttpResponseMessage Get(string id)
        {
        }
```

11. Add code to retrieve a traveler from the **Travelers** property by adding the following code to the **Get** method.

        ```cs
        var traveler = Travelers.FindBy(t=&gt;t.TravelerUserIdentity == id).FirstOrDefault();
```

12. Add the following code to the end of the **Get** method.

        ```cs
        // Handling the HTTP status codes
        if (traveler != null)
            return Request.CreateResponse&lt;Traveler&gt;(HttpStatusCode.OK, traveler);
        else
            return Request.CreateResponse(HttpStatusCode.NotFound);
```

13. In the **Get** method, right-click the first line of code, point to **Breakpoint** , and then click **Insert Breakpoint**.
14. Create a public method called **Post** by adding the following code.

        ```cs
        public HttpResponseMessage Post(Traveler traveler)
        {
        }
```

15. Add a new traveler to the database by adding the following code to the **Post** method.

        ```cs
        // saving the new order to the database
        Travelers.Add(traveler);
        Travelers.Save();
```

16. Add the following code to the end of the **Post** method, to create an **HttpResponseMessage**.

        ```cs
        // creating the response, the newly saved entity and 201 Created status code
        var response = Request.CreateResponse(HttpStatusCode.Created, traveler);
```

17. Add the following code to the end of the **Post** method to set the **Location** header with the URI of the new traveler.

        ```cs
        response.Headers.Location = new Uri(Request.RequestUri, traveler.TravelerId.ToString());
        return response;
```

18. In the **Post** method, right-click the first line of code, point to **Breakpoint** , and then click **Insert Breakpoint**.
19. Create a public method called **Put** by adding the following code.

        ```cs
        public HttpResponseMessage Put(string id, Traveler traveler)
        {
        }
```

20. Add the following code to the beginning of the **Put** method to validate that the traveler exists.

        ```cs
        // returning 404 if the entity doesn&#39;t exist
        if (Travelers.FindBy(t =&gt; t.TravelerUserIdentity == id).FirstOrDefault() == null)
            return Request.CreateResponse(HttpStatusCode.NotFound);
```

21. Update the existing traveler by adding the following code to the end of the method.

        ```cs
        Travelers.Edit(traveler);
        Travelers.Save();
        return Request.CreateResponse(HttpStatusCode.OK);
```

  >**Note:** The **HTTP PUT** method can also be used to create resources. Checking if the resources exist is performed here for simplicity.

22. In the **Put** method, right-click the first line of code, point to **Breakpoint** , and then click **Insert Breakpoint**.
23. Create a public method called **Delete** by adding the following code.

        ```cs
        public HttpResponseMessage Delete(string id)
        {
        }
```

24. Retrieve the traveler from the repository by adding the following code to the **Delete** method.

        ```cs
        var traveler = Travelers.FindBy(t =&gt; t.TravelerUserIdentity == id).FirstOrDefault();
```

25. Validate that the traveler exists by adding the following code to the end of the **Delete** method.

        ```cs
        // returning 404 if the entity doesn&#39;t exist
        if (traveler == null)
            return Request.CreateResponse(HttpStatusCode.NotFound);
```

26. Delete the traveler from the repository by adding the following code to the end of the **Delete** method.

        ```cs
        Travelers.Delete(traveler);
        Travelers.Save();
        return Request.CreateResponse(HttpStatusCode.OK);
```

27. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.

>**Results** : After completing this exercise, you should have run the project from Visual Studio 2012 and access the travelers&#39; service.

### Exercise 2: Consuming an ASP.NET Web API Service

#### Task 1: Consume the API Controller from a Client Application

1. In the **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** virtual machine, on the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.

2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. In the File name box, type D:\AllFiles\Mod03\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client\BlueYonder.Companion.Client.sln, and then click Open.
4. If you are prompted by a **Developers License** dialog box, click **I Agree**. If you are prompted by a **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**. Type your email address and a password in the **Windows Security** dialog box,and then click **Sign in**. Click **Close** in the **Developers License** dialog box.

  >**Note:** If you do not have valid email address, click **Sign up** and register for the service.  
Write down these credentials and use them whenever a use of an email account is required.

5. In Solution Explorer, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project, expand the **Helpers** folder, and then double-click **DataManager.cs**.
6. Locate the **GetTravelerAsync** method, and under the comment _// TODO: Lab 03 Exercise 2: Task 1.3: Implement the GetTravelelrAsync method_,removethe **return null** line andadd the following code.

        ```cs
        var travelersUri = string.Format(&quot;{0}travelers/{1}&quot;, BaseUri, hardwareId);
        HttpResponseMessage response = await client.GetAsync(new Uri(travelersUri));
        if (response.IsSuccessStatusCode)
        {
            string resultJson = await response.Content.ReadAsStringAsync();
            return await JsonConvert.DeserializeObjectAsync&lt;Traveler&gt;(resultJson);
        }
        else
        {
            return null;
        }
```

7. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
8. In the **GetTravelerAsync** method, right-click the first line of code, point to **Breakpoint** , and then click **Insert Breakpoint**.
9. Locate the comment _// TODO: Lab 03 Exercise 2: Task 1.6: Review the UpdateTravelerAsync method_, and review the code of the **CreateTravelerAsync** method. The method sets the **ContentType** header to request a JSON response. The method then uses the **PostAsync** method to send a POST request to the server.
10. In the **CreateTravelerAsync** method, right-click the first line of code, point to **Breakpoint** , and then click **Insert Breakpoint**.
11. Locate the comment _// TODO: Lab 03 Exercise 2: Task 1.8: Review the UpdateTravelerAsync method_, and review the code of the **UpdateTravelerAsync** method. The method uses the **client.PutAsync** method to send a **PUT** request to the server.
12. In the **UpdateTravelerAsync** method, right-click the first line of code, point to **Breakpoint** , and then click **Insert Breakpoint**.

#### Task 2: Debug the Client App

1. Go back to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.

2. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**.
3. Go back to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-C**. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
4. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**. The client app will start running.
5. Visual Studio 2012 with the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** solution opens. The code execution breaks inside the **GetTravelerAsync** method, and the line in breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
6. To continue, press F5.
7. Go back to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**.
8. Visual Studio 2012 with the **BlueYonder.Companion** solution opens. The code execution breaks inside the **Get** method, and the line in breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
9. Position the mouse cursor over the **id** parameter to view its value.
10. To continue, press F5.
11. Go back to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-C**.
12. Visual Studio 2012 with the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** solution opens. The code execution breaks inside the **CreateTravelerAsync** method, and the line in breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
13. To continue, press F5.
14. Go back to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**.
15. Visual Studio 2012 with the **BlueYonder.Companion** solution opens. The code execution breaks inside the **Post** method, and the line in breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
16. Position the mouse cursor over the **traveler** parameter to view its contents. Expand the traveler object to view the object&#39;s properties.
17. Press F5 to continue.
18. Go back to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-C**.
19. If you are prompted to allow the app to run in the background, click **Allow**.
20. Display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen.
21. Click **Search** , and in the **Search** box on the right side, type **New**. If you are prompted to allow the app to share your location, click **Allow**.
22. Wait for the app to show a list of flights from _Seattle_ to _New York_.
23. Click Purchase this trip.
24. In the **First Name** text box, type your first name.
25. In the **Last Name** text box, type your last name.
26. In the **Passport** text box, type **Aa1234567**.
27. In the **Mobile Phone** text box, type **555-5555555**.
28. In the **Home**** Address **text box, type** 423 ****Main St.**.
29. In the **Email Address** text box, type your email address.
30. Click Purchase.
31. Visual Studio 2012 with the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** solution opens. The code execution breaks inside the **UpdateTravelerAsync** method, and the line in breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
32. Press F5 to continue.
33. Go back to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**.
34. Visual Studio 2012 with the **BlueYonder.Companion** solution opens. The code execution breaks inside the **Put** method, and the line in breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
35. Position the mouse cursor over the **traveler** parameter to view its contents. Expand the traveler object to view the object&#39;s properties.
36. Press F5 to continue.
37. Go back to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-C**.
38. In the client app, click **Close** to close the confirmation message, and then close the client app.
39. Go back to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**.
40. To stop debugging, in Visual Studio 2012, press Shift+F5.

>**Results** : After completing this exercise, you should have run the BlueYonder Companion client application and created a traveler when purchasing a trip. You also should have retrieved an existing traveler and updated its details.
