# Module 4: Extending and Securing ASP.NET Web API Services

# Lab: Extending Travel Companion&#39;s ASP.NET Web API Services

### Exercise 1: Creating a Dependency Resolver for Repositories

#### Task 1: Change the FlightController constructor to support injection

1. In the **20487B-SEA-DEV-A** virtual machine, on the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. Browse to D:\Allfiles\Mod04\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.
4. Select the file **BlueYonder.Companion.sln** and then click **Open**.
5. In Solution Explorer, under BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers project, double-click LocationsController.cs.
6. Replace the **LocationsController** constructor method with the following code:

   ```cs
        public LocationsController (ILocationRepository locations)
        {
           Locations = locations;
        }
```
7. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.

>**Note:** The same pattern was already applied in the starter solution for the rest of the controller classes ( **TravelersController** , **FlightsController** , **ReservationsController** , and **TripsController** ).  
Open those classes to review the constructor definition.

#### Task 2: Create a dependency resolver class

1. In Solution Explorer, double-click **BlueYonderResolver.cs** ,located in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project.

  >**Note:** The BlueYonderResolver class implements the IDependencyResolver interface.

2. Locate the **GetService** method, and add the following code after the comment // TODO: Lab 4: Exercise 1: Task 2.1: Add a resolver for the LocationsController class.

   ```cs
        if (serviceType == typeof(LocationsController))
            return new LocationsController(new LocationRepository());
```
3. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.

#### Task 3: Register the dependency resolver class with HttpConfiguration

1. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project. Expand the **App\_Start** folder, and then double-click **WebApiConfig.cs** to open it.

2. Add the following code at the beginning of the **Register** method to map the dependency resolver to **BlueYonderResolver** :

   ```cs
        config.DependencyResolver = new BlueYonderResolver();
```
3. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.
4. In Solution Explorer, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, open the **LocationsController.cs** file.
5. Click the first line of code in the constructor method, and then press F9 to add a breakpoint.
6. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
7. Press F5 to run the app.
8. After the browser opens, append the string **Locations** tothe address in the address bar and press Enter. The address should be: **http://localhost:9239/Locations**
9. Switch back to Visual Studio and make sure the code breaks on the breakpoint.
10. Move the mouse cursor over the constructor&#39;s parameter and verify it is not null.
11. Press Shift+F5 to stop the debugger.
12. In Solution Explorer, expand the **Tests** folder, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers.Tests** project, and then double-click **LocationControllerTest.cs**.
13. Locate the **Initialize** method and examine its code. The test initialization process uses the **StubILocationRepository** type,which was auto-generated with the **Fakes** framework. This stub repository mimics the real location repository. You use the fake repository to test the code, instead of using the real repository, which requires using a database for the test. When running unit tests, you should use fake objects to replace external components, in order to reduce the complexity of creating and executing the test.

  >**Note:** For additional information about Fakes, see: [http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=298770&amp;clcid=0x409](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=298770&amp;clcid=0x409)

14. On the **Test** menu, point to **Run** , and the click **All Tests**.
15. Ensure that the test passes and then close the Test Explorer window that opened.

>**Results** : You will be able to inject data repositories to the controllers instead of creating them explicitly inside the controllers. This will decouple the controllers from the implementation of the repositories.

### Exercise 2: Adding OData Capabilities to the Flight Schedule Service

#### Task 1: Add a Queryable action to the flight schedule service

1. In Visual Studio, on the **Tools** menu, point to **Library Package Manager** , and then click **Package Manager Console**.

2. In the Package Manager Console, type the following command, and then press Enter.

   ```cs
        install-package Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.OData -version 4.0.30506 -ProjectName BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers
```
3. Wait until the Package Manager Console finishes downloading and adding the package.

  >**Note:** The current version of the **Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.OData** NuGet package has some incompatibilities with the version that was used when developing this course.  
Therefore, you are required to use the Package Manager Console to install the supported version of this package. ** **

4. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, and double-click **LocationsController****.cs**.
5. Decorate the **Get** method overload, which has three parameters, with the following attribute.

   ```cs
        [Queryable]
```
6. Remove the three parameters from the **Get** method and replace the **IEnumerable** return type with the **IQueryable** type. The resulting method declaration should resemble the following code.

   ```cs
        public IQueryable<Location> Get()
```
7. Replace the implementation of the method with the following code.
   
   ```cs
        return Locations.GetAll();
```
8. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.

#### Task 2: Handle the search event in the client application and query the flight schedule service by using OData filters

1. Log on to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-C** as **Admin** with the password **Pa$$w0rd**.

2. On the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.
3. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
4. Browse to D:\AllFiles\Mod04\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client.
5. Select the file BlueYonder. Companion.Client.sln and then click Open.
6. If you are prompted by a **Developers License** dialog box, click **I Agree**. If you are prompted by a **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**. Type your email address and a password in the **Windows Security** dialog boxand then click **Sign in**. Click **Close** in the **Developers License** dialog box.

  >**Note** : If you do not have a valid email address, click Sign up now and register for the service.

7. Write down these credentials and use them whenever an email account is required.
8. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, and then double-click **Addresses.cs** file.
9. Locate the declaration of the **GetLocationsWithQueryUri** property, change it to access the locations service by using OData query and replacing the returned value with the following code.

   ```cs
        GetLocationsUri + "?$filter=substringof(tolower('{0}'),tolower(City))";
```
10. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.

>**Results** : Your web application exposes the OData protocol that supports the **Get** request of the locations data.

### Exercise 3: Applying Validation Rules in the Booking Service

#### Task 1: Add Data Annotations to the Traveler Class

1. Go back to virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**.

2. InSolution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Entities** project, and then double-click **Traveler.cs**.
3. Add the following **using** directive at the beginning of the file.

   ```cs
        using System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations;
```
4. Decorate the **FirstName, LastName** , and **HomeAddress** properties with the following attribute.

   ```cs
        [Required]
```
5. Decorate the **MobilePhone** property with the following attribute.

   ```cs
        [Phone]
```
6. Decorate the **Email** property with the following attribute.

   ```cs
        [EmailAddress]
```
7. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.

#### Task 2: Implement the Action filter to validate the model

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **ActionFilters** folder in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, point to **Add** , and then click **Class**.

2. In the **Add New Item** dialog box, type **ModelValidationAttribute** in the **Name** box. Click **Add**.
3. Add the following **using** directive at the beginning of the file.

   ```cs
        using System.Web.Http.Filters;
        using System.Net;
        using System.Net.Http;
        using System.Web.Http;
```
4. Replace the class declaration with the following code.

   ```cs
        public class ModelValidationAttribute: ActionFilterAttribute
```
5. In the **ModelValidationAttribute** class, add the following code.

   ```cs
        public override void OnActionExecuting 
        (System.Web.Http.Controllers.HttpActionContext actionContext)
        {
           if (!actionContext.ModelState.IsValid)
                      actionContext.Response = actionContext.Request.CreateErrorResponse 
        (HttpStatusCode.BadRequest, new HttpError (actionContext.ModelState, true));
        }
```
6. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.

#### Task 3: Apply the custom attribute to the PUT and POST actions in the booking service

1. In Solution Explorer, in the BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers project, double-click TravelersController.cs.

2. Add the following **using** directive at the beginning of the file.

   ```cs
        using BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers.ActionFilters;
```
3. Decorate the **Put** and **Post** methods with the following attribute.

   ```cs
        [ModelValidation]
```
4. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.
5. On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.

>**Results** : Your web application will verify that the minimum necessary information is sent by the client before trying to handle it.

### Exercise 4: Securing the Communication between the Client and the Server

#### Task 1: Add an HTTPS binding in IIS

1. On the Start screen, click **Computer** to open the File Explorer window.

2. Browse to D:\AllFiles\Mod04\LabFiles\Setup.
3. Double-click the **Setup.cmd** file. Wait for the script to complete successfully and press any key to close the window.
4. On the Start screen, click the Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager tile.
5. In the Connections pane, click SEA-DEV12-A (SEA-DEV12-A\Administrator).
6. If an **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** dialog pops up asking about the Microsoft Web Platform, click **No**.
7. In the **Features View** , double-click the **Server Certificates** icon under the **IIS** group.
8. In the **Server Certificates** list, verify that you can see a certificate issued to **SEA-DEV12-A**. This certificate was created by the script you ran in the previous task.
9. In the Connections pane, expand SEA-DEV12-A (SEA-DEV12-A\Administrator). Expand Sites, and then click Default Web Site.
10. In the **Actions** pane, click **Bindings**.
11. In the **Site Bindings** dialog box, click **Add**.
12. In the **Add Site Binding** dialog box, select **https** in the **Type** combo box.
13. Select **SEA-DEV12-A** in the **SSL Certificate** combo box. Click **OK**. An HTTPS binding is added to the **Site Binding** list.
14. Click **Close** to close the **Site Bindings** dialog box.

>**Note:** When you add an HTTPS binding to the web site bindings, all web applications in the web site will support HTTPS.

#### Task 2: Host an ASP.NET web API web application in IIS

1. Return to Visual Studio 2012.

2. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and then click **Properties**.
3. In the navigation pane, click the **Web** tab.
4. On the **Web** tab, scroll to the **Servers** group. Clear the **Use IIS Express** check box. If you get a confirmation dialog box for SQL Express, click **Yes**.
5. Click Create Virtual Directory.
6. Wait for a confirmation message, and click **OK**.
7. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
8. Return to IIS Manager.
9. In the **Connections** pane, right-click **Default Web Site** , and click **Refresh**.
10. Expand Default Web Site. Click BlueYonder.Companion.Host.
11. In the Actions pane, click Browse \*:80 (http).  
This action opens Internet Explorer and browses to the web application.

12. In Internet Explorer 10, locate the address bar and append **locations** to the end of the URL. Press Enter.
13. In the lower section ofInternet Explorer 10 **,** a prompt appears. Click **Open**.
14. If you are prompted to select a program to open the file, click **Try an App on this PC** and select **Notepad** from the list of available programs.
15. Explore the contents of the file. It contains the list of locations from the database in the JSON format.
16. In Internet Explorer 10, change the URL in the address bar to **https://SEA-DEV12-A/BlueYonder.Companion.Host/locations** and press Enter.
17. In the lower section ofInternet Explorer 10,a prompt appears. Click **Open**.
18. If you are prompted to select a program to open the file, select **Notepad** from the list of available programs.
19. Explore the contents of the file. It contains the list of locations from the database in the JSON format.

#### Task 3: Test the client application against the secure connection

1. Go back to the virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-C**.

2. In Solution Explorer, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
3. In the **Addresses** class, locate and replace content of the **BaseUri** property with the following URL.

          https://SEA-DEV12-A/BlueYonder.Companion.Host/

4. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
5. Press Ctrl+F5 to start the client app without debugging.
6. If you are prompted to allow the app to run in the background, click **Allow**.
7. After the client app starts, display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen.
8. Click **Search** , and in the **Search** box on the right side, enter **New**. If you are prompted to allow the app to share your location, click **Allow**.

  >**Note:** The search functionality now uses the OData-based locations service.

9. Wait for the app to show a list of flights from _Seattle_ to _New York_.
10. Click Purchase this trip.
11. In the **First Name** box, type your first name.
12. In the **Last Name** box, type your last name.
13. In the **Passport** box, type **Aa1234567**.
14. In the Mobile Phone box, type 555-5555555.
15. In the Home Address box, type 423 Main St..
16. In the **Email Address** box, type **ABC**.
17. Click Purchase.
18. Verify that you receive an error message originating from the service saying **The Email field is not a valid e-mail address**. Click **Close**.
19. In the **Email Address** box, replace **ABC** with your email address.
20. Click Purchase.
21. Click **Close** to close the confirmation message, and then close the client app.

>**Results** : The communication with your web application will be secured by using a certificate.
