# Module 4: Extending and Securing ASP.NET Web API Services

# Lab: Extending Travel Companion&#39;s ASP.NET Web API Services

### Exercise 1: Creating a Dependency Resolver for Repositories

#### Task 1: Change the FlightController constructor to support injection

1. Open **Visual Studio 2017**
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. Browse to [Repository Root]\Allfiles\20487C\Mod04\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.
4. Select the file **BlueYonder.Companion.sln** and then click **Open**.
5. In Solution Explorer, under BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers project, double-click LocationsController.cs.
6. Replace the **LocationsController** constructor method with the following code:

   ```cs
        public LocationsController (ILocationRepository locations)
        {
           Locations = locations;
        }
```
7. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.

>**Note:** The same pattern was already applied in the starter solution for the rest of the controller classes ( **TravelersController** , **FlightsController** , **ReservationsController** , and **TripsController** ).  
Open those classes to review the constructor definition.

#### Task 2: Create a dependency resolver class

1. In Solution Explorer, double-click **BlueYonderResolver.cs** ,located in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project.

  >**Note:** The BlueYonderResolver class implements the IDependencyResolver interface.

2. Locate the **GetService** method, and add the following code after the comment // TODO: Lab 4: Exercise 1: Task 2.1: Add a resolver for the LocationsController class.

   ```cs
        if (serviceType == typeof(LocationsController))
            return new LocationsController(new LocationRepository());
```
3. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.

#### Task 3: Register the dependency resolver class with HttpConfiguration

1. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project. Expand the **App\_Start** folder, and then double-click **WebApiConfig.cs** to open it.

2. Add the following code at the beginning of the **Register** method to map the dependency resolver to **BlueYonderResolver** :

   ```cs
        config.DependencyResolver = new BlueYonderResolver();
```
3. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.
4. In Solution Explorer, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, open the **LocationsController.cs** file.
5. Click the first line of code in the constructor method, and then press F9 to add a breakpoint.
6. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
7. Press F5 to run the app.
8. After the browser opens, append the string **Locations** to the address in the address bar and press Enter. The address should be: **http://localhost:9239/Locations**
9. Switch back to Visual Studio and make sure the code breaks on the breakpoint.
10. Move the mouse cursor over the constructor&#39;s parameter and verify it is not null.
11. Press Shift+F5 to stop the debugger.

>**Results**: You will be able to inject data repositories to the controllers instead of creating them explicitly inside the controllers. This will decouple the controllers from the implementation of the repositories.

### Exercise 2: Adding OData Capabilities to the Flight Schedule Service

#### Task 1: Add a Queryable action to the flight schedule service

1. In Visual Studio, on the **Tools** menu, point to **Library Package Manager** , and then click **Package Manager Console**.

2. In the Package Manager Console, type the following command, and then press Enter.

   ```cs
        install-package Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.OData -version 5.7.0 -ProjectName BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers
        install-package Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.OData -version 5.7.0 -ProjectName BlueYonder.Companion.Host
```
3. Wait until the Package Manager Console finishes downloading and adding the package.
4. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, and double-click **LocationsController****.cs**.
5. Decorate the **Get** method overload, which has three parameters, with the following attribute.

   ```cs
        [EnableQuery]
```
6. Remove the three parameters from the **Get** method and replace the **IEnumerable** return type with the **IQueryable** type. The resulting method declaration should resemble the following code.

   ```cs
        public IQueryable<Location> Get()
```
7. Replace the implementation of the method with the following code.
   
   ```cs
        return Locations.GetAll();
```
8. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.
9. Now you will also need to configure Web API to properly use OData. To do this, you will have to change **WebApiConfig.cs**
10. Under **BlueYonder.Companion.Host**, expand the **App_Start** folder, and then open **WebApiConfig.cs**
11. Add the following code to the **Register** method.
```cs
        ODataConventionModelBuilder builder = new ODataConventionModelBuilder();
        builder.EntitySet<LocationDTO>("Locations");
        builder.EntityType<LocationDTO >().Filter("City");
        config.MapODataServiceRoute(
                routeName: "ODataRoute",
                routePrefix: "odata",
                model: builder.GetEdmModel());
        config.EnsureInitialized();
```

#### Task 2: Handle the search event in the client application and query the flight schedule service by using OData filters

2. Open **Visual Studio 2017**
3. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
4. Browse to [Repository Root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod04\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client.
5. Select the file BlueYonder. Companion.Client.sln and then click Open.
6. If you are prompted by a **Developers License** dialog box, click **I Agree**. If you are prompted by a **User Account Control**  dialog box, click **Yes**. Type your email address and a password in the **Windows Security** dialog box and then click **Sign in**. Click **Close** in the **Developers License** dialog box.

  >**Note** : If you do not have a valid email address, click Sign up now and register for the service.

7. Write down these credentials and use them whenever an email account is required.
8. Open the BlueYonder.Companion.Client solution from the **[Repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod04\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client** folder.
9. Open the **Helpers\DataManager.cs** file from the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project.
10. Add the following code to the **using** section:
	```cs
		using BlueYonder.Compaion.Entities;
	```
11. Locate **GetLocationsAsync** at line 86.
12. Replace the current implementation with the following code:
	```cs
	Container container = new Container(new Uri(Addresses.BaseODataUri));
    return await container.Locations.AddQueryOption("$filter", $"contains(tolower(City),tolower('{query}'))").ExecuteAsync();
	```
13. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.

>**Results**: Your web application exposes the OData protocol that supports the **Get** request of the locations data.

### Exercise 3: Applying Validation Rules in the Booking Service

#### Task 1: Add Data Annotations to the Traveler Class

1. Go back to virtual machine **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**.

2. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Entities** project, and then double-click **Traveler.cs**.
3. Add the following **using** directive at the beginning of the file.

   ```cs
        using System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations;
```
4. Decorate the **FirstName, LastName** , and **HomeAddress** properties with the following attribute.

   ```cs
        [Required]
```
5. Decorate the **MobilePhone** property with the following attribute.

   ```cs
        [Phone]
```
6. Decorate the **Email** property with the following attribute.

   ```cs
        [EmailAddress]
```
7. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.

#### Task 2: Implement the Action filter to validate the model

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **ActionFilters** folder in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, point to **Add** , and then click **Class**.

2. In the **Add New Item** dialog box, type **ModelValidationAttribute** in the **Name** box. Click **Add**.
3. Add the following **using** directive at the beginning of the file.

   ```cs
        using System.Web.Http.Filters;
        using System.Net;
        using System.Net.Http;
        using System.Web.Http;
```
4. Replace the class declaration with the following code.

   ```cs
        public class ModelValidationAttribute: ActionFilterAttribute
```
5. In the **ModelValidationAttribute** class, add the following code.

   ```cs
        public override void OnActionExecuting 
        (System.Web.Http.Controllers.HttpActionContext actionContext)
        {
           if (!actionContext.ModelState.IsValid)
                      actionContext.Response = actionContext.Request.CreateErrorResponse 
        (HttpStatusCode.BadRequest, new HttpError (actionContext.ModelState, true));
        }
```
6. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.

#### Task 3: Apply the custom attribute to the PUT and POST actions in the booking service

1. In Solution Explorer, in the BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers project, double-click TravelersController.cs.

2. Add the following **using** directive at the beginning of the file.

   ```cs
        using BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers.ActionFilters;
```
3. Decorate the **Put** and **Post** methods with the following attribute.

   ```cs
        [ModelValidation]
```
4. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.
5. On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.

>**Results**: Your web application will verify that the minimum necessary information is sent by the client before trying to handle it.

### Exercise 4: Securing the Communication between the Client and the Server

#### Task 1: Add an HTTPS binding in IIS Express

1. In the **BlueYonder.Companion** solution, select the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and then go to the properties view.
2. Change **SSL Enabled** from **False** to **True**.
3. Run the application.
4. You will be prompted to trust the IIS Express SSL certificate. Click **Yes**.
5. A **Security Warning** window will pop up asking you if you want to install the certificate. Click **Yes**.

>**Note:** When you add an HTTPS binding to the web site bindings, all web applications in the web site will support HTTPS.

#### Task 3: Test the client application against the secure connection

1. Go back to the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** solution
2. In Solution Explorer, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
3. In the **Addresses** class, locate and replace content of the **BaseUri** property with the following URL.

          http://localhost:10534/

4. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
5. Press Ctrl+F5 to start the client app without debugging.
6. If you are prompted to allow the app to run in the background, click **Allow**.
7. After the client app starts, display the app bar by right-clicking or by swiping from the bottom of the screen.
8. Click **Search** , and in the **Search** box on the right side, enter **New**. If you are prompted to allow the app to share your location, click **Allow**.

  >**Note:** The search functionality now uses the OData-based locations service.

9. Wait for the app to show a list of flights from _Seattle_ to _New York_.
10. Click Purchase this trip.
11. In the **First Name** box, type your first name.
12. In the **Last Name** box, type your last name.
13. In the **Passport** box, type **Aa1234567**.
14. In the Mobile Phone box, type 555-5555555.
15. In the Home Address box, type 423 Main St..
16. In the **Email Address** box, type **ABC**.
17. Click Purchase.
18. Verify that you receive an error message originating from the service saying **The Email field is not a valid e-mail address**. Click **Close**.
19. In the **Email Address** box, replace **ABC** with your email address.
20. Click Purchase.
21. Click **Close** to close the confirmation message, and then close the client app.

>**Results**: The communication with your web application will be secured by using a certificate.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
