# Module 9: Windows Azure Storage


Wherever you see a path to a file that starts with *[repository root]*, replace it with the absolute path to the folder in which the 20487 repository resides.   
For example, if you cloned or extracted the 20487 repository to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487**, 
the following path: **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod06** should be changed to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487\AllFiles\20487C\Mod06**.

# Lab: Microsoft Azure Storage

### Exercise 1: Storing Content in Azure Storage

#### Task 1: Create a storage account

1. From the **Start** menu, open **Windows PowerShell**.
2. In the **Windows PowerShell** window, go to **[repository root]\AllFiles\Mod09\LabFiles\Setup**.
3. Type **.\createAzureServices.ps1**, press **Enter**, and then follow the on screen instructions.
4. When **.\createAzureServices.ps1** finishes running, the lab will be ready.
5. Close the **Windows PowerShell** window.
6. Open **Microsoft Edge**.
7. Go to the Microsoft Azure portal at **http://portal.azure.com**.
8. If a page appears prompting for your email address, enter your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the **Sign-In** page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

   >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then enter your credentials.

9. If the **Windows Azure Tour** dialog box appears, close it.
10. On the left navigation blade, click **Storage accounts**.
11. To create a new storage account, on the **Storage accounts** blade, click **Add**.
12. In the **Name** text box, type the following storage account name: **blueyonderlab09**_yourinitials_ (_yourinitials_ is your initials in lowercase).
13. In the **Resource group** box, select **Use Existing**, and then select **BlueYonder.Lab.09**.
14. In the **Location** box, select the region closest to your location.
15. Click **Create**. Wait until the storage account is created.

    >**Note:** If you get a message saying the storage account creation failed because you reached your storage account limit, delete one of your existing storage accounts and retry the step. If you do not know how to delete a storage account, consult the instructor.

16. On the left navigation blade, click **Storage accounts**.
17. On the **Storage accounts** blade, click the account name that you just created.
18. Click the **Access Keys** tab.
19. On the **Access Keys** blade, click the copy icon next to the **CONNECTION STRING** of the **key1** entry.
20. Close the dialog box.

#### Task 2: Add a storage connection string to the cloud project

1. Open **Visual Studio 2017**.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. In the **File name** text box, type **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod09\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Companion.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project.
5. Open **web.config**.
6. Under **appSettings**, add a new entry:
   ```xml
    <add key="BlueYonderStore" value="{paste the connection string copied in task 1}">
   ```
7. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.

#### Task 3: Create blob containers and upload files to them

1. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Storage** project, and then double-click **AsyncStorageManager.cs**.
2. In the **AsyncStorageManager** class, enter the following code in a default constructor:

    ```cs
		string connectionString = CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("BlueYonderStore");
        _account = CloudStorageAccount.Parse(connectionString);
   ```
3. Replace the contents of the **GetContainer** method with the following code:

    ```cs
		var blobClient = _account.CreateCloudBlobClient();
        var container = blobClient.GetContainerReference(containerName);
        container.CreateIfNotExists();
        return container;
   ```
4. Replace the contents of the **GetBlob** method with the following code:

    ```cs
		CloudBlobContainer container = GetContainer(containerName);
        if (isPublic)
        {
        container.SetPermissions(new BlobContainerPermissions { PublicAccess = BlobContainerPublicAccessType.Blob });
        }
        return container.GetBlockBlobReference(fileName);
   ```
5. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.
6. Locate the **UploadStreamAsync** method and explore its code. This method uses the previous methods to retrieve a reference to the new blob, and then uploads the stream to it.

#### Task 4: Explore the asynchronous file upload action

1. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, and then double-click **FilesController.cs**.
2. Explore the **UploadFile** method of the **FilesController** class. Explore how the asynchronous **UploadStreamAsync** method is called, and how the result is returned.
3. Explore the **Public** and **Private** methods of the **FilesController** class. Each method uploads a file to either a public blob container or a private blob container.

   >**Note:** The client app calls these service actions to upload files as either public or private files. Public files can be viewed by any user, whereas private files can only be viewed by the user who uploaded them.

 
   >**Results**: After you complete the exercise, your code will support storing files in a Blob storage, either in a private container or a public container. You will be able to test your changes at the end of the lab.

### Exercise 2: Storing Content in Azure Table Storage

#### Task 1: Write the files metadata to the Table storage

1. In **Solution Explorer**, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Storage** project, expand the **TableEntities** folder, and then double-click **FileEntity.cs**.
2. Add the following **using** directive to the beginning of the file:

   ```cs
		using Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.Table;
   ```
3. Derive the **FileEntity** class from the **TableEntity** abstract class by replacing the **FileEntity** class declaration with the following code:

   ```cs
		public class FileEntity : TableEntity
     ```
4. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
5. In **Solution Explorer**, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Storage** project, double-click **AsyncStorageManager.cs**.
6. Add the following **using** directive to the beginning of the file:

   ```cs
		using Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.Table;
   ```
7. In the **AsyncStorageManager** class, replace the contents of the **GetTable** method with the following code:

   ```cs
		CloudTableClient tableClient = _account.CreateCloudTableClient();
        CloudTable table = tableClient.GetTableReference(MetadataTable);
        table.CreateIfNotExists();
        return table;
   ```

8. In the **SaveMetadataAsync** method, add the following code after the **// TODO: Lab 9 Exercise 2: Task 1.3: use a TableServiceContext to add the object** comment:

   ```cs
		TableOperation insert = TableOperation.Insert(fileData);
    await table.ExecuteAsync(insert);
   ```
9. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
10. In **Solution Explorer**, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, double-click **FilesController.cs**.
11. In the **CreateFileEntity** method, before the return statement, add the following code:

    ```cs
		entity.RowKey = HttpUtility.UrlEncode(fileData.Uri.ToString());
        entity.PartitionKey= locationId.ToString();
     ```
    >**Note:** The **RowKey** property is set to the file&#39;s URL, because it has a unique value. The URL is encoded because the forward slash (/) character is not valid in row keys. The **PartitionKey** property is set to the **locationID** property, because the partition key groups all the files from a single location in the same partition. By using the location&#39;s ID as the partition key, you can query the table and get all the files uploaded for a specific location. 

12. Explore the code in the **Metadata** method. The method creates the **FileEntity** object, and then saves it to the table.

    >**Note:** The client app calls this service action after it uploads the new file to the Blob storage. Storing the list of files in the Table storage enables the client app to use queries to find specific images, either by trip or location.

#### Task 2: Query the Table storage

1. In **Solution Explorer**, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Storage** project, double-click **AsyncStorageManager.cs**.
2. In the **AsyncStorageManager** class, replace the contents of the **GetLocationMetadata** method with the following code:

    ```cs
		CloudTable table = GetTable();
    TableQuery<FileEntity> query = new TableQuery<FileEntity>().Where(TableQuery.GenerateFilterCondition("PartitionKey", QueryComparisons.Equal, locationId));
    return table.ExecuteQuery(query);
     ```
    >**Note:** The location ID was used as the entity&#39;s partition key.

3. In the **GetFilesMetadata** method, replace the implementation with the following:

   ```cs
		CloudTable table = GetTable();
            
    foreach (var rowKey in rowKeys)
    {
        TableQuery<FileEntity> query = new TableQuery<FileEntity>()
        .Where(TableQuery.GenerateFilterCondition("RowKey", QueryComparisons.Equal, rowKey));
        yield return table.ExecuteQuery(query).Single();
    }
    ```
4. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
5. In **Solution Explorer**, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, double-click **FilesController.cs**.
6. In the **FilesController** class, review the content of **LocationMetadata**.

   >**Note:** The method calls the **GetLocationMetadata** method from the **AsyncStorageManager** class, and converts the  **FileEntity** objects that are marked as public to **FileDto** objects. The client app calls this service action to get a list of all public files related to a specific location.

7. Locate the **ToFileDto** method of the **FileController** class.
8. Uncomment the following line:

   ```cs
		LocationId = int.Parse(file.PartitionKey),
   ```
9. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.
10. Open the **FilesController** class, and then explore the code in the **TripMetadata** method.

    >**Note:** The method retrieves the list of files in the trip&#39;s public blob container, and then uses the **GetFilesMetadata**  method of the **AsyncStorageManager** class to get the **FileEntity** object for each of the files. The client app calls this service action to get a list of all files related to a specific trip. Currently, the code retrieves only public files. In the next exercise, you will add the code to retrieve both public and private files.


    >**Results**: After you complete the exercise, your code will support storing information about uploaded photos in the Table storage. You will be able to test your changes at the end of the lab.

### Exercise 3: Creating Shared Access Signatures for Blobs

#### Task 1: Change the public photos query to return private photos

1. In **Solution Explorer**, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Storage** project, double-click **AsyncStorageManager.cs**.
2. In the **AsyncStorageManager** class, replace the contents of the **CreateSharedAccessSignature** method with the following code:

   ```cs
		var policy = new SharedAccessBlobPolicy()
        {
           Permissions = SharedAccessBlobPermissions.Read,
           SharedAccessExpiryTime = DateTime.UtcNow.AddHours(1)
        };
   ```
3. In the **CreateSharedAccessSignature** method, add the following code to the end of the method:

   ```cs
		BlobContainerPermissions blobPermissions = new BlobContainerPermissions();
        blobPermissions.SharedAccessPolicies.Add("blueyonder", policy);
        var container = GetContainer(containerName);
        container.SetPermissions(blobPermissions);
   ```
4. Complete the **CreateSharedAccessSignature** method by adding the following code to the end of the method:

   ```cs
		return container.GetSharedAccessSignature(policy);
   ```
5. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.

   >**Note:** The shared access key signature is a URL query string that you append to blob URLs. Without the query string, you cannot access private blobs.

6. In **Solution Explorer**, in the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, double-click **FilesController.cs**.
7. In the **FilesController** class, locate the **TripMetadata** method.
8. Add the following code after the **// TODO: Lab 9, Exercise 3, Task 1.4: get a list of files in the trip&#39;s private folder**  comment:

   ```cs
		var privateUris = storageManager.GetFileUris(GetContainer(id, true));
        var allUris = publicUris.Union(privateUris);
   ```
9. In the **allKeys** variable assignment, replace the **publicUris** variable with the **allUris** variable. The resulting code should resemble the following:

   ```cs
		var allKeys = allUris.Select(u => HttpUtility.UrlEncode(u.ToString()));
   ```
10. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
11. Locate the **ToFileDto** method and explore its code. If the requested file is private, create a shared access key for the blob&#39;s container, and then set the **Uri** property of the file to a URL containing the shared access key.
12. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and then click **Publish**.
13. Select **Create New**, and then click **Publish**.
14. In the **Create App Service** dialog box, enter the following values:
    - In **App Name**, type **BlueYonderCompanion09-**_yourinitials_ (replace _yourinitials_ with your initials, for example, John Doe would become jd).
    - In **Resource Group**, select **BlueYonder.Lab.09**.
15. Click **Create** and wait until the publish operation completes.
16. Open a browser, and then go to **http://portal.azure.com**.
17. Open **App Services**, and then click the web application you just published.
18. On the **BlueYonderCompanion09-**_yourinitials_ blade (replace _yourinitials_ with your initials), in the **Overview** tab, note the value under **URL**.


#### Task 2: Upload public and private files to Azure Storage

1. Open another instance of **Visual Studio 2017**.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. Go to **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod09\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client\,** select the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client.sln** file, and then click **Open**.
4. If a **Developers License** dialog box appears, click **I Agree**. If a **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**. Enter your email address and a password in the **Windows Security** dialog box, and then click **Sign in**. Click **Close** in the  **Developers License** dialog box.

   >**Note:** If you do not have a valid email address, click **Sign up** and register for the service.  
   >Write down these credentials and use them whenever you need to provide an email account.

5. In **Solution Explorer**, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
6. Locate the **BaseUri** property, and replace the **{BlueYonderCompanionURI}** string with the URL you wrote down in the previous task.
7. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.
8. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
9. To start the client app without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.
10. If you are prompted to allow the app to run in the background, click **Allow**.
11. After the client app starts, to display the app bar, right-click or swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
12. Click **Search**, and then in the **Search** text box on the right side, type **New**. If you are prompted to allow the app to share your location, click **Allow**.
13. Wait for the app to show a list of flights from Seattle to New York.
14. Click **Purchase this trip**.
15. In the **First Name** text box, enter your first name.
16. In the **Last Name** text box, enter your last name.
17. In the **Passport** text box, type **Aa1234567**.
18. In the **Mobile Phone** text box, type **555-5555555**.
19. In the **Home Address** text box, type **423 Main St.**.
20. In the **Email Address** text box, enter your email address.
21. Click **Purchase**.
22. To close the confirmation message, click **Close**.
23. On the **Blue Yonder Companion** page, click the current trip from Seattle to New York.
24. On the **Current Trip** page, to display the app bar, right-click or swipe up from the bottom of the screen. Click **Media**.
25. On the **Media** page, to display the app bar, right-click or swipe up from the bottom of the screen. Click **Add Files from Disk**.
26. Go to **[repository root]\Allfiles\20487C\Mod09\LabFiles\Assets**, select **StatueOfLiberty.jpg**, and then click **Open**.
27. On the **Media** page, to display the app bar, right-click or swipe up from the bottom of the screen. Click **Upload Item to Public Storage**.
28. Wait until the file is uploaded.
29. On the **Media** page, to display the app bar, right-click or swipe up from the bottom of the screen. Click **Add Files from Disk**.
30. Select **EmpireStateBuilding.jpg**, and then click **Open**.
31. On the **Media** page, to display the app bar, right-click or swipe up from the bottom of the screen. Click **Upload Item to Private Storage**.
32. Wait until the file is uploaded.
33. Click the back button. On the **Current Trip** page, to display the app bar, right-click or swipe up from the bottom of the screen, and then click **Media**.
34. On the **Media** page, wait until the images are downloaded from the Azure storage. Verify that both the private and public photos appear.
35. Click the back button to return to the **Current Trip** page, and then click the back button again to return to the **Blue Yonder Companion** page. Under **New York at a Glance**, verify that the photo of the Statue of Liberty, which you uploaded to the public container, appears.

#### Task 3: View the content of the blob containers and the table

1. Go to either of the instances of Visual Studio 2017.
2. On the **View** menu, click **Cloud Explorer**.
3. If you didn't add your Azure subscription to the cloud explorer yet, perform the following steps:  
    a. Click the person shaped icon next to the **Resource Types** drop-down list.  
    b. If your account doesn't appear in the list, click **Manage Accounts**. Otherwise, skip to step f.  
    c. Under **All Accounts**, click **Add an account**.  
    d. Follow the sign-in procedure. Enter the email address you used to sign up to Azure, and click **Next**. Enter the password and sign in.  
    e. If your account already appears in the list, wait for your subscriptions to appear and make sure to select **All Subscriptions**.  
    f. Click **Apply**.  
4. In **Cloud Explorer**, expand your subscription node (For example, Azure Pass (<email>)).
5. Expand <b>Storage Accounts</b>, and then expand <b>blueyonderlab09</b><i>yourinitials</i> (<i>yourinitials</i> is your initials in lowercase). 
6. Expand <b>Blob Containers</b>. Observe the two folders that are created, one for public photos and the other for private photos.
7. Under <b>Blob Containers</b>, double-click the container that ends with <b>public</b>. The blob container has one file.
8. In the container&#39;s file table, right-click the first line, and then click <b>Copy URL</b>.
9. Open a browser.
10. In the browser&#39;s address bar, remove the existing address, and then press Ctrl+V to paste the copied address. Press Enter and observe the uploaded photo.
11. Return to Visual Studio 2017, and in <b>Server Explorer</b>, double-click the container that ends with <b>private</b>. The blob container has one file.
12. In the container&#39;s file table, right-click the first line, and then click <b>Copy URL</b>.
13. Open a browser.
14. In the browser&#39;s address bar, remove the existing address, and then press Ctrl+V to paste the copied address. Press Enter.    
    Private photos cannot be accessed by a direct URL; therefore, an HTTP 404 (The webpage cannot be found) page appears.

    >**Note:** The client app is able to show the private photo because it uses a URL that contains a shared access permission key.

15. In **Server Explorer**, expand the **Tables** node, and then double-click the **FilesMetadata** node.
16. View the contents of the **FilesMetadata** table. The table contains metadata for both public and private photos.

    >**Results**: After you complete the exercise, you will be able to use the client app to upload photos to the private and public blob containers. You will also be able to view the content of the Blob storage and the Table storage by using Visual Studio 2017.

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
