# Module 3: Creating and Consuming ASP.NET Web API Services

# Lab: Creating the Travel Reservation ASP.NET Web API Service

 Wherever  you see a path to a file that starts with *[repository root]*, replace it with the absolute path to the folder in which the 20487 repository resides.
 For example, if you cloned or extracted the 20487 repository to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487**, 
the following path: **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod03** should be changed to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487\AllFiles\20487C\Mod03**.

### Exercise 1: Creating an ASP.NET Web API Service

#### Task 1: Create a new API Controller for the Traveler Entity

1. Open **Visual Studio 2017**.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. In the **File name** text box, type **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod03\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion\BlueYonder.Companion.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project node, point to **Add**, and then click **Class.**
5. In the **Add New Item - BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** window, type **TravelersController** in the **Name** text box, and then click **Add**.
6. Add the following **using** directives at the beginning of the class.

    ```cs
        using System.Web.Http;
        using BlueYonder.DataAccess.Interfaces;
        using BlueYonder.DataAccess.Repositories;
        using System.Net.Http;
        using BlueYonder.Entities;
        using System.Net;
    ```
    
7. Replace the class declaration with the following code.

    ```cs
        public class TravelersController : ApiController
        
      ```
8. Add the following property to the **TravelersController** class.

    ```cs
        private ITravelerRepository Travelers { get; set; }
     ```
9. Add the following constructor code to the class.

    ```cs
        public TravelersController()
        {
        Travelers = new TravelerRepository();
        }
     ```
10. Create a public method called **Get** by adding the following code to the class.

    ```cs
        public HttpResponseMessage Get(string id)
        {
        }
     ```
11. Add code to retrieve a traveler from the **Travelers** property by adding the following code to the **Get** method.

    ```cs
        var traveler = Travelers.FindBy(t=>t.TravelerUserIdentity == id).FirstOrDefault();
      ```
12. Add the following code to the end of the **Get** method.

    ```cs
        // Handling the HTTP status codes
        if (traveler != null)
            return Request.CreateResponse<Traveler>(HttpStatusCode.OK, traveler);
        else
            return Request.CreateResponse(HttpStatusCode.NotFound);
       ```
13. In the **Get** method, right-click the first line of code, point to **Breakpoint**, and then click **Insert Breakpoint**.
14. Create a public method called **Post** by adding the following code to the class.

    ```cs
        public HttpResponseMessage Post(Traveler traveler)
        {
        }
     ```
15. Add a new traveler to the database by adding the following code to the **Post** method.

    ```cs
        // saving the new order to the database
        Travelers.Add(traveler);
        Travelers.Save();
     ```
16. Add the following code to the end of the **Post** method to create an **HttpResponseMessage** response message.

    ```cs
        // creating the response, the newly saved entity and 201 Created status code
        var response = Request.CreateResponse(HttpStatusCode.Created, traveler);
     ```
17. Add the following code to the end of the **Post** method to set the **Location** header with the URI of the new traveler.

    ```cs
        response.Headers.Location = new Uri(Request.RequestUri, traveler.TravelerId.ToString());
        return response;
     ```
18. In the **Post** method, right-click the first line of code, point to **Breakpoint**, and then click **Insert Breakpoint**.
19. Create a public method called **Put** by adding the following code to the class.

    ```cs
        public HttpResponseMessage Put(string id, Traveler traveler)
        {
        }
     ```
20. Add the following code to the beginning of the **Put** method to validate that the traveler exists.

    ```cs
        // returning 404 if the entity doesn't exist
        if (Travelers.FindBy(t => t.TravelerUserIdentity == id).FirstOrDefault() == null)
            return Request.CreateResponse(HttpStatusCode.NotFound);
       ```
21. Update the existing traveler by adding the following code to the end of the **Put** method.

    ```cs
        Travelers.Edit(traveler);
        Travelers.Save();
        return Request.CreateResponse(HttpStatusCode.OK);
     ```
     >**Note:** The **HTTP PUT** method can also be used to create resources. Checking if the resources exist is performed here for simplicity.

22. In the **Put** method, right-click the first line of code, point to **Breakpoint**, and then click **Insert Breakpoint**.
23. Create a public method called **Delete** by adding the following code to the class.

    ```cs
        public HttpResponseMessage Delete(string id)
        {
        }
     ```
24. Retrieve the traveler from the repository by adding the following code to the **Delete** method.

    ```cs
        var traveler = Travelers.FindBy(t => t.TravelerUserIdentity == id).FirstOrDefault();
     ```
25. Validate that the traveler exists by adding the following code to the end of the **Delete** method.

    ```cs
        // returning 404 if the entity doesn't exist
        if (traveler == null)
            return Request.CreateResponse(HttpStatusCode.NotFound);
       ```
26. Delete the traveler from the repository by adding the following code to the end of the **Delete** method.

    ```cs
        Travelers.Delete(traveler);
        Travelers.Save();
        return Request.CreateResponse(HttpStatusCode.OK);
     ```
27. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.

    >**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have run the project from Visual Studio 2017 and accessed the travelers&#39; service.

### Exercise 2: Consuming an ASP.NET Web API Service

#### Task 1: Consume the API Controller from a Client Application

1. Open **Visual Studio 2017**.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. In the **File** name text box, type **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod03\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client\BlueYonder.Companion.Client.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4. If you are prompted by a **Developers License** dialog box, click **I Agree**. If you are prompted by a **User Account Control**  dialog box, click **Yes**. Enter your email address and password in the **Windows Security** dialog box, and then click **Sign in**. In the **Developers License** dialog box, click **Close**.

   >**Note:** If you do not have a valid email address, click **Sign up** and register for the service.  
Write down these credentials and use them whenever a use of an email account is required.
5. In **Solution Explorer**, right click **Solution 'BlueYonder.Companion.Client'**, select **Build Solution**.
6. In **Solution Explorer**, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project, expand the **Helpers** folder, and then double-click  **DataManager.cs**.
7. Locate the **GetTravelerAsync** method, and under the **// TODO: Lab 03 Exercise 2: Task 1.6: Implement the GetTravelerAsync method** comment, remove the **return null** line, and then add the following code.

    ```cs
        var hardwareId = GetHardwareId();
        var uri = new Uri(string.Format(Addresses.GetTravelerByIdentityUri, hardwareId));
        var response = await GetAsync(uri);
        Traveler traveler = null;
        if (response.Success)
        {
             traveler = JsonSerializerHelper.Deserialize<TravelerDTO>(response.Content).ToObject();
        }
        return traveler;  
    ```
8. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.
9. In the **GetTravelerAsync** method, right-click the first line of code, point to **Breakpoint**, and then click 
**Insert Breakpoint**.
10. Locate the **// TODO: Lab 03 Exercise 2: Task 1.9: Review the CreateTravelerAsync method** comment, and review the code of the **CreateTravelerAsync** method. The method sets the **ContentType** header to request a JSON response. The method then uses the **PostAsync** method to send a POST request to the server.
11. In the **CreateTravelerAsync** method, right-click the first line of code, point to **Breakpoint**, and then click **Insert Breakpoint**.
12. Locate the **// TODO: Lab 03 Exercise 2: Task 1.11: Review the UpdateTravelerAsync method** comment, and review the code of the **UpdateTravelerAsync** method. The method uses the **PutAsync** method to send a **PUT** request to the server.
13. In the **UpdateTravelerAsync** method, right-click the first line of code, point to **Breakpoint**, and then click **Insert Breakpoint**.

#### Task 2: Debug the Client App

1. Switch to the **BlueYonder.Companion** solution. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**. 
2. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**.
3. Switch to the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** solution. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client**  project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**. 
4. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**.
   The code execution breaks inside the **GetTravelerAsync** method, and the line in the breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
5. To continue, press F5.
6. Switch to the **BlueYonder.Companion** solution. The code execution breaks inside the **Get** method, and the line in the breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
7. Position the mouse cursor over the **id** parameter to view its value.
8. To continue, press F5.
9. Switch to the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** solution. The code execution breaks inside the **CreateTravelerAsync** method, and the line in breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
10. To continue, press F5.
11. Switch to the **BlueYonder.Companion** solution. The code execution breaks inside the **Post** method, and the line in the breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
12. Position the mouse cursor over the **traveler** parameter to view its contents. Expand the **traveler** object to view the object&#39;s properties.
13. To continue, press F5.
14. If you are prompted to allow the app to run in the background, click **Allow**.
15. To display the app bar, right-click or swipe from the bottom of the screen.
16. Click **Search**, and in the **Search** text box on the right side, type **New**. If you are prompted to allow the app to share your location, click **Yes** and then click **New York**.
17. Wait for the app to show a list of flights from Seattle to New York.
18. Click **Purchase this trip**.
19. In the **First Name** text box, enter your first name.
20. In the **Last Name** text box, enter your last name.
21. In the **Passport** text box, type **Aa1234567**.
22. In the **Mobile Phone** text box, type **555-5555555**.
23. In the **Home Address** text box, type **423 Main St.**.
24. In the **Email Address** text box, enter your email address.
25. Click **Purchase**.
26. Switch to the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** solution. The code execution breaks inside the **UpdateTravelerAsync** method, and the line in the breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
27. To continue, press F5.
28. Switch to the **BlueYonder.Companion** solution. The code execution breaks inside the **Put** method, and the line in the breakpoint is highlighted in yellow.
29. Position the mouse cursor over the **traveler** parameter to view its contents. Expand the **traveler** object to view the object&#39;s properties.
30. To continue, press F5.
31. In the client app, click **Close** to close the confirmation message, and then close the client app.
32. Switch to the **BlueYonder.Companion** solution. To stop debugging, in Visual Studio 2017, press Shift+F5.
33. Close all Open Windows.
    >**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have run the BlueYonder Companion client application and created a traveler when purchasing a trip. You should have also retrieved an existing traveler and updated their details.

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
