# Module 8: Deploying Services

  Wherever a path to a file starts with [repository root], replace it with the absolute path to the folder in which the 20487 repository resides. 
  For example, if you cloned or extracted the 20487 repository to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487**, change the following path: **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod06** to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487\AllFiles\20487C\Mod06**.

# Lab: Deploying Services

### Exercise 1: Deploying an Updated Service to Azure

#### Task 1: Add the new weather updates service to the ASP.NET Web API project

1. On the **Start** menu, search for and right-click **PowerShell**, and then click **Run as Administrator**.
2. In the **User Account Control** modal, click **Yes**.
3. Run the following command: **Install-Module azurerm -AllowClobber -MinimumVersion 5.4.1**.
4. Go to **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod08\LabFiles\Setup**.
5. Run the following command:
   ```batch
     createAzureServices.ps1
    ```
6.  Follow the on-screen instructions. Wait for the deployment to complete successfully. The web.config files for both the Companion and Server solutions should be already in place. 
7. Write down the name of the Azure App Service that is created.
8. Exit the command prompt.
9. Open a browser and go to **http://portal.azure.com**. 
10. Click on **SQL databases** in the left menu. Then click on **BlueYonder.Companion.Lab08** database.
11. Click on **Set server firewall** in the top menu.
12. Click on **Add client IP** in the top menu and then click **Save**. 
13. Click **Start**, type **Visual Studio**. From the search results, right-click **Visual Studio 2017** and then select **Run as administrator**.
14. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
15. Type **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod08\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Companion.sln** in the **File name** text box, and then click **Open**.
16. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and then click **Publish**.
17. In the **Publish** window, select **Microsoft Azure App Service**, select **Select existing**, and then click **Publish**.
18. In the **App Service** modal, expand the **BlueYonder.Lab.08** node.
19. Select **blueyonder-companion-08-**_yourinitials_, and then click **OK**.
20. Wait for the publish operation to complete, a browser should open automatically in the deployed app service.
21. Return to the **Visual Studio 2017** instance.
22. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, and then double-click **LocationController.cs**.
23. Locate the **GetWeather** method and replace its code with the following code.

    ```cs
		var service = new WeatherService();
        Location location = Locations.GetSingle(locationId);
        return service.GetWeather(location, date);
    ```
24. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
25. On the **View** menu, click **Task List**.
26. In **Task List**, select **Entire Solution** from the drop-down list at the top.
27. In **Task List**, double-click the **// TODO: Lab 08: Exercise 1: Task 1.5: Add route for the weather updates** comment. 
28. Verify that the **WebApiConfig.cs** file opens.
29. Add the following code under the comment.

    ```cs
		config.Routes.MapHttpRoute(
           name: "LocationWeatherApi",
           routeTemplate: "locations/{locationId}/weather",
           defaults: new
           {
              controller = "locations",
              action = "GetWeather"
           },
           constraints: new
           {
              httpMethod = new HttpMethodConstraint(HttpMethod.Get)
           }
        );
    ```
30. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.

#### Task 2: Deploy the updated project to an App Service staging a deployment slot

1. Open a browser and go to **http://portal.azure.com**.
2. On the menu blade on the left, click **App Services**.
3. In the **App Services** blade, click **blueyonder-companion-08-**_yourinitials_.
4. Under **Deployment**, click **Deployment slots**.
5. Click **Add Slot**.
6. In the **Name** text box, type **Staging**.
7. Click **OK**, and then wait until the deployment slot is created.
8. Go back to **Visual Studio 2017**.
9. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and then click **Publish**.
10. In the **Publish** window, select **Microsoft Azure App Service**, select **Select existing**, and then click **Publish**.
11. In the **App Service** modal, expand the **BlueYonder.Lab.08** node.
12. Expand **blueyonder-companion-08-**_yourinitials_.
13. Expand **Deployment Slots**.
14. Select **Staging**, and then click **OK**.

    >**Note:** You are performing the same procedure as you did in Task 1 of this exercise, with one difference: you are deploying to the **Staging** environment and not to the **Production** environment.

#### Task 3: Test the client app with the production and staging deployments

1. On the **Start** menu, search for **Visual Studio 2017**, and then from the search results, select **Visual Studio 2017**.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. Type **[repository root]\AllFiles\Mod08\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client\BlueYonder.Companion.Client.sln** in the **File name** text box, and then click **Open**.
4. If a **Developers License** dialog box appears, click **I Agree**. If a **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**. 
5. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, enter your email address and a password, and then click **Sign in**.
6. In the **Developers License** dialog box, click **Close**.

   >**Note:** If you do not have a valid email address, click **Sign up** and register for the service.  
   >Write down these credentials and use them whenever you require an e-mail account.

7. In **Solution Explorer**, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
8. Locate the **BaseUri** property, and then replace the **{AppService}** string with the name of the Azure App Service you wrote down at the beginning of this lab.
9. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
10. To start the client app without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.
11. If a prompt to allow the app to run in the background appears, click **Allow**.
12. To display the app bar, right-click or swipe from the bottom of the screen.  

    Click **Search**, and in the **Search** text box on the right side, type **New**. If a prompt to allow the app to share your location appears, click **Allow**.  
    
13. Wait for the app to show a list of flights from Seattle to New York.
14. Click **Purchase this trip**.
15. In the **First Name** text box, enter your first name.
16. In the **Last Name** text box, enter your last name.
17. In the **Passport** text box, type **Aa1234567**.
18. In the **Mobile Phone** text box, type **555-5555555**.
19. In the **Home Address** text box, type **423 Main St.**.
20. In the **Email Address** text box, enter your email address.
21. Click **Purchase**.
22. To close the confirmation message, click **Close**.
23. Verify that the weather forecast does not display the temperature, and displays only the Fahrenheit sign.
24. Close the client app.
25. Go to the Azure portal at http://portal.azure.com.
26. If a page appears prompting for your email address, enter your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the **sign in** page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

    >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then enter your credentials.

27. In the navigation pane, click **App Services**, and in the **App Services** list, click the name of the app service you wrote down at the beginning of this lab.
28. In the app service blade, under **Deployment**, click **Deployment slots**.
29. In the **Deployment Slots** blade, click **Staging**.
30. In the **Staging** blade, copy the **URL** value.
31. Return to **Visual Studio 2017**. 
32. In **Solution Explorer**, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
33. Switch the comments between the two **BaseUri get** implementations by placing the production URL in the comment and removing the comment from the staging URL. The resulting code should resemble the following:

    ```cs
		public static string BaseUri
        {
           //get { return "http://{AppService}.azurewebsites.net/"; } // production
           get { return "{StagingAddress}"; } // staging
        }
     ```
    >**Note:** The name of the cloud service shown at the beginning of the lab replaces {**AppService**}.

34. In the **BaseUri** property, select the value **{StagingAddress}**, and then, to paste the copied staging deployment address over it, press Ctrl+V.
35. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
36. To start the client app without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.
37. After the app starts, verify that the weather forecast appears for the current trip.
38. Close the client app.

    >**Note:** The staging and the production deployments share their databases, which is why the current trip, which you created with the production deployment, appears when you connect to the staging deployment.

#### Task 4: Perform a VIP Swap by using the Azure portal and retest the client app

1. Return to the browser with the open App Service, and then click **Swap** on the taskbar at the top of the blade.
2. In the **Swap** blade, select **Staging** for source and **Production** for destination.
3. Click **OK** and wait until the swap process completes.
4. Leave the browser open, and return to Visual Studio 2017.
5. If the **Addresses.cs** file does not open, in **Solution Explorer**, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
6. Locate the two **BaseUri** get implementations (one of them is in the comments), and place the implementation containing the staging URL in the comments.
7. Remove the comment from the implementation that uses the production URL.
8. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
9. To start the client app without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.
10. After the app starts, verify that the weather forecast appears for the current trip.
11. Close the client app.
12. Return to the browser, move the pointer over **Delete** on the taskbar at the top, in the text box, type **Staging**, and then click **Delete**.

    >**Note:** After you ensure that the production deployment is running successfully, we recommend that you delete the staging deployment to reduce the compute-hour charges.

    >**Results**: After you complete this exercise, the client app retrieves weather forecast information from the production deployment in Azure.

### Exercise 2: Exporting and Importing an Internet Information Services Deployment Package

#### Task 1: Deploy the Booking and Frequent Flyer web applications to Internet Information Services (IIS)

1. Open **Visual Studio 2017**.
2. Click **File**, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. In the **File name** text box, type **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod08\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Server.sln**, and then click **Open**.

4. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project, and then click **Publish**.
5. On the **Publish** page, select **IIS, FTP, etc.**, and then click **Publish**.
6. In the **Publish** modal, enter the following values:  
    i. Server: **localhost**  
    ii. Site name: **Default Web Site/BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost**  
7. Click **Save** and wait for the deployment to finish.
8. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Server.FrequentFlyer.WebHost** project, and then click **Publish**.
9. On the **Publish** page, select **IIS, FTP, etc.**, and then click **Publish**.
10. In the **Publish** modal, enter the following values:   
    iii. Server: **localhost**  
    iv. Site name: **Default Web Site/BlueYonder.Server.FrequentFlyer.WebHost**  
11. Click **Save** and wait for the deployment to finish.

#### Task 2: Export the web applications containing the WCF booking and frequent flyer services

1. On the **Start** menu, search for and click **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**.  
2. In the **Connections** pane, expand the root node.
3. If an **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** dialog box appears prompting you to use the Microsoft Web Platform, click **No**.
4. In the **Connection** pane, expand **Sites**, and then click **Default Web Site**.
5. In the **Actions** pane, click **Export Application**.
6. In the **Export Application Package** dialog box, click **Manage Components**.
7. In the **Manage Components** dialog box, select the first line in the grid, click **Remove**, and then click **Yes** to confirm the deletion of the selected entry.
8. Add a line to the grid by using the following settings:

   - Provider Name: **appHostConfig**
   - Path: **Default Web Site/BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost**

9. Add a line to the grid by using the following settings:

   - Provider Name: **appHostConfig**
   - Path: **Default Web Site/BlueYonder.Server.FrequentFlyer.WebHost**

10. Add a line to the grid by using the following settings:

    - Provider Name: **appPoolConfig**
    - Path: **DefaultAppPool**

11. Click **OK** to close the **Manage Components** dialog box.
12. Click **Next** two times, type **[path to user folder]\Downloads\backup.zip** in the **Package path** text box, and then click **Next**.
13. Wait for the export to complete, and then click **Finish**.
14. Close the **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** window.

#### Task 3: Delete the web applications and restore by importing the deployment package

1. On the **Start** menu, search for and click **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**.
2. In the **Connections** pane, expand the root node.
3. If an **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** dialog box appears prompting you to use the Microsoft Web Platform, click **No**.
4. In the **Connection** pane, expand **Sites**, and then expand **Default Web Site**.
5. Right-click **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost**, and click **Remove**.
6. In the **Confirm Remove** modal, click **Yes**.
7. Right-click **BlueYonder.Server.FrequentFlyer.WebHost**, and then click **Remove**.
8. In the **Confirm Remove** modal, click **Yes**.
9. Click **Default Web Site**.
10. In the **Actions** pane, under **Deploy**, click **Import Application**.
11. In the **Import Application Package** dialog box, type **[path to user folder]\Downloads\backup.zip** in the **Package path** box,  click **Next** three times, and then click **Finish**.
12. Close **IIS Manager**, and open a browser.
13. Go to the Azure portal at http://portal.azure.com.
14. If a page appears, prompting for your email address, enter your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the **sign in** page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

    >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account you previously used, and then enter your credentials.

15. In the navigation pane, click **More Services**, and in the filter field type **Relays**.
14. Click **Relays**, and then click the Relay namespace you wrote down at the beginning of this lab in the right pane. Click the **Relays** tab and verify that it is a listener for the **booking** relay.

    >**Results**: After a "system failure", you have restored the Booking and Frequent Flyer services by redeploying a backup package, thus they are back online.

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
