# Module 2: Querying and Manipulating Data Using Entity Framework

# Lab: Creating a Data Access Layer by Using Entity Framework

### Exercise 1: Creating a Data Model

#### Task 1: Explore the existing Entity framework data model project

1. On the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2017** tile.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open** , and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. In the **File name** box, type **D:\AllFiles\Mod02\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion\BlueYonder.Companion.sln** , and then click **Open**.
4. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Entities** project, and then double-click **FlightSchedule.cs**.
5. Explore the **FlightScheduleId** and the **Flight** properties of the **FlightSchedule** class, and note how the  **DatabaseGenerated** and **ForeignKey** attributes are used in this class.
6. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.DataAccess** project, expand the **Repositories** folder, and then double-click  **FlightRepository.cs**.
7. Explore the methods of the **FlightRepository** class.

   >**Note:** The **FlightRepository** class implements the _Repository_ pattern. The Repository pattern is designed to decouple the data access strategy from the business logic layer that handles the data. The repository exposes the data access functionality and implements it internally by using a specific data access strategy, which in this case is Entity Framework. By using repositories, you can easily create a mock, replacing the repository, and improve the testability of the business logic.

   >For more information about the Repository pattern and its related patterns, see   [http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=298756&amp;clcid=0x409](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=298756&amp;clcid=0x409).

   >In Lab 4, &quot;Extending Travel Companion&#39;s ASP.NET Web API Services&quot;, Module 4, &quot;Extending and Securing ASP.NET Web API Services&quot;, you will see how to increase testability by using mocked repositories.

#### Task 2: Prepare the data model classes for Entity Framework

1. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.Entities** project, and then double-click **Trip.cs** to open it.

2. Add the following **using** directives to the beginning of the file.

  ```cs
		using System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.Schema;
```
3. Note the name of the **TripId** field that will be used as a key.

  ```cs
		public int TripId { get; set; }
```
   >**Note:** You do not need to decorate the **TripId** property with the **[Key]** attribute, because the property corresponds to the Code First convention for primary key name, which is the class&#39; name suffixed with _ID_. 

4. Enable lazy loading for the **FlightInfo** property by replacing the property with the following code.

  ```cs
		[ForeignKey("FlightScheduleID")]
        public virtual FlightSchedule FlightInfo { get; set; }
```
   >**Note:** Entity Framework will detect the virtual property in the **Trip** class and will create a new derived proxy class that implements lazy loading for the **FlightInfo** property.  
   >When you load trip entities from the database, the entity object will be of the derived trip proxy type, and not of the **Trip**  type. 

5. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.
6. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.Entities** project, double-click the **Reservation.cs** file.
7. Add the following **using** directives to the beginning of the file.

  ```cs
		using System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.Schema;
```
8. Enable lazy loading for the **DepartureFlight** property by replacing the property with the following code.

  ```cs
		[ForeignKey("DepartFlightScheduleID")]
        public virtual Trip DepartureFlight { get; set; }
```
9. Enable lazy loading for the **ReturnFlight** property by replacing the property with the following code.

  ```cs
		[ForeignKey("ReturnFlightScheduleID")]
        public virtual Trip ReturnFlight { get; set; }
```
10. Set the **ReturnFlightScheduleID** property as nullable to make it optional.

```cs
		public int? ReturnFlightScheduleID { get; set; }
```
   >**Note:** Setting the **ReturnFlightScheduleID** foreign key property to a nullable int indicates that this relation is not mandatory (0-N relation, meaning a reservation does not require a return flight). The **DepartFlightScheduleID** foreign key property is not nullable and therefore indicates the relation is mandatory (1-N relation, meaning every reservation must have a departing flight). 

11. Press Ctrl+S to save the file.

#### Task 3: Add the newly created entities to the context

1. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.DataAccess** project, and then double-click **TravelCompanionContext.cs**.

2. Inside the **TravelCompanionContext** class, add the following code.

  ```cs
		public DbSet<Reservation> Reservations { get; set; }
```
3. Inside the **TravelCompanionContext** class, add the following code.

  ```cs
		public DbSet<Trip> Trips { get; set; }
```
4. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.

#### Task 4: Implement a the reservation repository

1. In Solution Explorer, expand the **BlueYonder.DataAccess** project.

2. Expand the **Repositories** folder, and double-click **ReservationRepository.cs**.
3. Locate the **GetSingle** method, and replace its content with the following code.

  ```cs
		var query = from r in context.Reservations
                where r.ReservationId == entityKey
                select r;
        return query.SingleOrDefault();
```
4. Locate the **Edit** method, and replace its content with the following code.

  ```cs
		var originalEntity = context.Reservations.Find(entity.ReservationId);
        context.Entry(originalEntity).CurrentValues.SetValues(entity);
```
   >**Note** : You can refer to Lesson 4, &quot;Manipulating Data&quot;, Topic 4, &quot;Updating Entities&quot;, for an explanation when to use the **SetValues** method instead of manually setting the state of the entity to **Modified**.

5. Locate the **Dispose** method, and replace its content with the following code.

  ```cs
		if (context != null)
        {
           context.Dispose();
           context = null;
        }
```
6. Uncomment the comments from the following methods.

    - **GetAll**
    - **Add**
    - **Delete**

7. Review the implementation of the **Delete** method to understand how cascade delete was implemented, so that when a Reservation is deleted, its **DepartureFlight** and **ReturnFlight** objects are deleted as well.
8. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.

   
   >**Results** : After you complete this exercise, the Entity Framework Code First model is ready for testing.

### Exercise 2: Querying and Manipulating Data

#### Task 1: Explore the existing integration test project

1. In **Solution Explorer** , under the **BlueYonder.IntegrationTests** project, double-click **FlightQueries.cs**.

2. Explore the query test methods in the **FlightQueries** class. The **TestInitialize** static method is responsible for initializing the database and the test data, and all the other methods are intended to test various queries with lazy load and eager load.
3. In **Solution Explorer** , under the **BlueYonder.IntegrationTests** project, double-click **FlightActions.cs**.
4. Explore the **InsertFlight** , **UpdateFlight** , and **DeleteFlight** test methods in the **FlightActions** class. Observe the use of the **Assert** static class to verify the results of the test.

#### Task 2: Create queries by using LINQ to Entities

1. In **Solution Explorer** , expand the **BlueYonder.IntegrationTests** project, and then double-click **ReservationQueries.cs**.

2. In the **ReservationQueries** class, add the following code to the **GetReservationWithFlightsEagerLoad** test method.

  ```cs
		Reservation reservation;
        using (var repository = new ReservationRepository())
        {
           var query = from r in repository.GetAll()
                       where r.ConfirmationCode == "1234"
                       select r;
           query = query.Include(r => r.DepartureFlight).Include(r => r.ReturnFlight);
           reservation = query.FirstOrDefault();
        }
        Assert.IsNotNull(reservation);
        Assert.IsNotNull(reservation.DepartureFlight);
        Assert.IsNotNull(reservation.ReturnFlight);
```
3. In the **ReservationQueries** class, in the **GetReservationWithFlightsLazyLoad** ,add the following code between the comment and the end of the **using** block.

  ```cs
		Assert.IsNotNull(reservation.DepartureFlight);
                        Assert.IsNotNull(reservation.ReturnFlight);
```
   >**Note:** By examining the value of the navigation properties, you are invoking the lazy load mechanism.

4. In the **ReservationQueries** class, in the **GetReservationsWithSingleFlightWithoutLazyLoad,** locate the //TODO comment and add the following code below it.

  ```cs
		context.Configuration.LazyLoadingEnabled = false;
```
5. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.

   >**Note:** Pay attention that the **Assert** method now checks again a null value, because lazy loading was turned off, and the navigation properties are not loaded. 

#### Task 3: Create queries by using Entity SQL

1. Locate the **GetOrderedReservations** of the **ReservationQueries** class.

2. Add the following code below the //TODO comment.

  ```cs
		var sql = @"SELECT value r FROM reservations as r ORDER BY r.confirmationCode DESC";
        ObjectQuery<Reservation> query = ((IObjectContextAdapter)context).ObjectContext.CreateQuery<Reservation>(sql);
        reservations = query.ToList();
```
3. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.

#### Task 4: Create a test for manipulating data

1. In **Solution Explorer** , expand the **BlueYonder.IntegrationTests** project, and then double-click **FlightActions.cs**.

2. In the **FlightActions** class, add the following code to the **UpdateFlight** method, below the comment //TODO: Lab 02 Exercise 2, Task 4.1 : Implement the UpdateFlight Method.

  ```cs
		FlightRepository repository;
        using (repository = new FlightRepository())
        {
        repository.Edit(flight);
        repository.Save();
        }
        using (repository = new FlightRepository())
        {
        Flight updatedFlight = repository.FindBy(f => f.FlightNumber == "BY002_updated").FirstOrDefault();
        Assert.IsNotNull(updatedFlight);
        }
```
3. To save the file, press Ctrl+S

#### Task 5: Use cross-repositories integration tests with System.Transactions

1. In the **FlightActions** class, locate the **UpdateUsingTwoRepositories** method.

2. Locate the code that creates the Location and Flight repositories. Each repository is created with a separate context, meaning each repository will use a separate transaction when saving changes.
3. Locate the code for loading and updating the flight and location objects. Each entity is updated and saved in a separate transaction, but because both transactions are located in the same transaction scope, both transactions are not yet committed.
4. In the **UpdateUsingTwoRepositories** method,locate the query below the comment _//TODO: Lab 02, Exercise 2 Task 5.2: Review the query for the updated flight that is inside the transaction scope_.

   >**Note:** When querying from inside a transaction scope, you will get the updated values of entities, while other users, not participating in the transaction, will see the old values, until the transaction commits.

5. Locate the commented call to the **Complete** method.

   >**Note:** Without setting the transaction as complete, both transactions will roll back after the transaction scope closes

6. Locate the query below the comment _//TODO: Lab 02, Exercise 2 Task 5.4 : Review the query for the updated flight that is outside the transaction scope_.

   >**Note:** After the transaction is rolled back, attempts to locate the updated entity will fail.

#### Task 6: Run the tests, and explore the database created by Entity framework

1. In Solution Explorer, under the **BlueYonder.IntegrationTests** project, double-click **TravelCompanionDatabaseInitializer.cs**.

2. Locate the **Seed** method, and add the following code at the end of the method.

  ```cs
		context.Reservations.Add(reservation1);
        context.Reservations.Add(reservation2);
        context.SaveChanges();
```
3. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
4. On the **Test** menu, point to **Windows** , and then click **Test Explorer**.
5. In Test Explorer, click **Run All** , and wait for all the tests to complete.
6. Explore the results, and verify that all 16 methods have passed the test.
7. On the Start screen, click the **SQL Server Management Studio** tile.
8. In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, type the following information, and then click **Connect** :

   - Server name: **.\SQLEXPRESS**
   - Authentication: **Windows Authentication**

9. In **Object Explorer** , expand the **Databases** node, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Lab02** database, and then expand the **Tables** node.
10. Explore the tables that were created by Entity Framework, and notice the creation of the **Reservations** and **Trips** tables.

   
   >**Results** : The Entity Framework data model works as designed and is verified by tests.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
