# Module 12: Scaling Services

# Lab: Scalability

### Exercise 1: Use Azure Redis Cache

#### Task 1: Create an Azure Redis Cache

1. Open the Azure Portal in your web browser.

1. In the left-hand pane, click **+ Create a resource**, then click **Databases**, and then click **Redis cache**.

1. For the cache name and the resource group name, enter `blueyondercache-YOURINITIALS`.

1. For the pricing tier, choose **Basic C0 (250 MB Cache)**.

1. Click **Create** and wait for the cache to be created. This may take a few minutes.

1. In the left-hand pane, click **All resources**, and then click **blueyondercache-YOURINITIALS** (the Redis cache you created).

1. Click **Access keys** (under **SETTINGS**), and then click the clipboard icon next to the **Primary connection string (StackExchange.Redis)** text field to copy the connection string to your clipboard.

1. On the Start menu, type **Visual Studio 2017**, and then click **Visual Studio 2017**.

1. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.

1. Go to **[repositoryroot]\Allfiles\Mod12\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion**, select the file **BlueYonder.Companion.sln**, and then click **Open**.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **BlueYonder.Reservations** project, and double-click the **Web.config** file to open it.

1. Locate the **<connectionStrings>** section, and replace the value of the connection string named **Redis** with the value copied to the clipboard in the previous step. After this step, the **<connectionStrings>** section should be similar to the following:

```
<connectionStrings>
  <add name="TravelCompanion" providerName="System.Data.SqlClient" connectionString="Data Source=.\SQLEXPRESS;Database=BlueYonder.Companion.Lab12;Integrated Security=SSPI" />
  <add name="Redis" connectionString="blueyondercache-YOURINITIALS.redis.cache.windows.net:6380,password=YOURPASSWORD,ssl=True,abortConnect=False" />
</connectionStrings>
```

1. Press **Ctrl+S** to save the file with your changes.

#### Task 2: Add code to cache the list of latest reservations

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **BlueYonder.Reservations** project, expand the **Controllers** folder, and double-click the **ReservationsController.cs** file to open it.

1. Locate the **Get** method, and in the method locate the comment _// TODO: Lab 12, Exercise 1, Task 1.2 : Store the query results in Redis_. Place the following code after the comment:

```cs
RedisProvider.Cache.StringSet(RESERVATIONS_KEY, JsonConvert.SerializeObject(reservations));
```

1. Press **Ctrl+S** to save the file with your changes.

#### Task 3: Add code to fetch the list of latest reservations

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **BlueYonder.Reservations** project, expand the **Controllers** folder, and double-click the **ReservationsController.cs** file to open it.

1. Locate the **Get** method, and in the method locate the comment _// TODO: Lab 12, Exercise 1, Task 1.3 : Fetch the query results from Redis_. Place the following code after the comment:

```cs
string cachedReservations = RedisProvider.Cache.StringGet(RESERVATIONS_KEY);
if (!String.IsNullOrEmpty(cachedReservations))
{
	return JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<List<ReservationDTO>>(cachedReservations);
}
```

1. Press **Ctrl+S** to save the file with your changes.

#### Task 4: Add code to invalidate the list of latest reservations

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **BlueYonder.Reservations** project, expand the **Controllers** folder, and double-click the **ReservationsController.cs** file to open it.

1. Locate the **Get** method, and in the method locate the comment _// TODO: Lab 12, Exercise 1, Task 1.4 : Delete the cached results from Redis_. Place the following code after the comment:

```cs
RedisProvider.Cache.KeyDelete(RESERVATIONS_KEY);
```

1. Press **Ctrl+S** to save the file with your changes.

#### Task 5: Test using Windows PowerShell

1. Press **Ctrl+Shift+B** to build the solution.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **BlueYonder.Reservations** project, and click **Set as startup project**.

1. Press **Ctrl+F5** to run the application. A browser window should open with the application's landing page. Click the **/api/reservations** link to see the list of reservations displayed in JSON format.

1. On the Start menu, type **Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Windows PowerShell**.

1. In the PowerShell window, type the following command and hit ENTER. Note that you need to replace the port number (1791 in this example) with the port number displayed in your web browser window when you ran the application.

```
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "http://localhost:1791/api/reservations?traveler=David" -Method Post
```

1. In the web browser, refresh the **/api/reservations** page again, and make sure you see the new reservation in the JSON document.

  >**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created an Azure Redis Cache, and used it to cache reservation information obtained from the database.

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
