# Module 1: Overview of Service and Cloud Technologies

# Lab: Exploring the Work Environment

### Exercise 1: Creating an Azure SQL Database

#### Task 1: Create a new Azure SQL Database server

1. Open a browser and navigate to **https://portal.azure.com**.
2. If a page appears, prompting you to enter your email address, type your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the **Sign In** page to appear, type your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

   >**Note:** During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account that you previously used, and then continue to type your credentials.

3. Click **+ New**
4. Search for **SQL Server**
5. Select **SQL Server (logical server)**
6. Server name : **BlueYonder-_YourInitials_** (e.g. Name - John Doe, Server Name - BlueYonder-jd)
7. in the **LOGIN NAME** text box, type **SQLAdmin**.
8. In the **LOGIN PASSWORD** and **CONFIRM PASSWORD** text boxes, type **Pa$$w0rd**.
9. In the **REGION** list, select the region that is closest to you, and then click **Create**.
10. Wait till the server's deployment ends.
11. Write down the name of the newly created SQL database server.

#### Task 2: Manage the Azure SQL Database server from SQL Server Management Studio

1. On the **All Resources** pane, click the name of the newly created server.

2. Click the **Firewall/Private Network** tab.
3. Click **Add client Ip**
4. Click **Save**.

   >**Note:** We recommend that you allow only your computer&#39;s IP address, or your organization&#39;s IP address range to access the database server. However, in this course, you will use this database server for the upcoming labs, and your IP address might change in the meanwhile; therefore, you are required to allow access from all IP addresses.

5. On the **Start** screen, click the **SQL Server Management Studio** tile.
6. In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, in the **_Server name_** text box, type **SQLServerName.database.windows.net** (Replace **_SQLServerName_** with the server name that you wrote down in the previous task).
7. In the **Authentication** drop-down list, select **SQL Server Authentication**.
8. In the **Login** text box, type **SQLAdmin** , in the **Password** text box, type **Pa$$w0rd** , and then click **Connect**.
9. In Object Explorer, right-click the **Databases** node, and then click **Import Data Tier Application.**
10. In the **Import Data-tier Application** wizard, click **Next** , and then click **Browse**.
11. Go to **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod01\LabFiles\Assets**. (replace [repository root] with an absolute path of the repository folder)
12. Double-click **BlueYonder.bacpac**.
13. Click **Next** , click **Next** again, and then click **Finish**.
14. Wait until the database import procedure completes, and then click **Close**.
15. Press F5 to refresh the database list.
16. Expand the **Databases** node, and then verify that the **BlueYonder** database is created.

    >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you should have created an Azure SQL database in your Azure account.

### Exercise 2: Creating an Entity Data Model

#### Task 1: Create an Entity Framework Model

1. On the **Start** screen, click the **Visual Studio 2012** tile.

2. On the **File** menu, point to **New**, and then click **Project**.
3. In the **New Project** dialog box, on the navigation pane, expand the **Installed** node, expand the **Templates** node, expand the **Visual C#** node, and then click the **Windows** node.
4. Select **Class Library** from the list of templates.
5. In the **Name** text box, type **BlueYonder.Model**, in the **Location** text box, type **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod01\LabFiles\begin** ,select the **Create directory for solution** check box, and then click **OK**.
6. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **Class1.cs** file, click **Delete**, and then click **OK**.
7. Right-click the **BlueYonder.Model** project, point to **Add**, and then click **New Item**.
8. In the **Add New Item** dialog box, in the navigation pane, expand the **Visual C# Items** node, click the **Data** node, and then select **ADO.NET Entity Data Model** from the list of templates.
9. In the **Name** text box, type **EntityModel**, and then click **Add**.
10. In the **Entity Data Model Wizard**, click **Generate from database**, and then click **Next**.
11. In the **Choose Your Data Connection** page, click **New Connection**.
12. If the **Choose Data Source** dialog box appears, click **Microsoft SQL Server**, and then click **Continue**.
13. In the **Connection Properties** dialog box, in the **Server name** text box, type **SQLServerName.database.windows.net** (replace **SQLServerName** with the server name that you wrote down in the previous exercise).
14. Select the **Use SQL Server Authentication** option.
15. In the **User name** text box, type **SQLAdmin**, in the **Password** text box, type **Pa$$w0rd** , select **Save my password**, and then click **Test Connection**. Verify that the connection test succeeded.
16. Click **OK** to close the **Microsoft Visual Studio** dialog box.
17. From the **Select or enter a database name** list, select the **BlueYonder** database, and then click **OK**.
18. In the **Choose Your Data Connection** page, select **Yes, Include the sensitive data in the connection string**, and then click  **Next**.
19. In the **Choose Your Database Objects and Settings** page, expand **Tables**, expand **dbo**, select **Locations** and **Travelers**, and then click **Finish**. Wait until Visual Studio 2017 creates the data model.
20. If the **Security Warning** dialog box appears, click **OK** (it might appear more than once).
21. Press Ctrl+S to save the file,
22. If the **Security Warning** dialog box appears, click **OK** (it might appear more than once).
23. Close the **EntityModel.edmx** diagram.

    >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you should have created Entity Framework wrappers for the **BlueYonder** database.

### Exercise 3: Managing the Entity Framework Model with an ASP.NET Web API Project

#### Task 1: Create an ASP.NET Web API Project

1. Right-click the **BlueYonder.Model** solution, point to **Add** , and then click **New Project**.

2. In the **Add New Project** dialog box, in the navigation pane, expand the **Installed** node, expand the **Templates** node, expand the **Visual C#** node, click the **Web** node, and then select **ASP.NET Web Application (.NET Framework)** from the list of templates.
3. In the **Name** text box, type **BlueYonder.MVC** , and then click **OK**.
4. In the **New ASP.NET MVC 4 Project** dialog box, select the **Web API** template, and then click **OK**.

#### Task 2: Add a Web API Controller with CRUD Actions by using the Add Controller Wizard

1. Right-click the **BlueYonder.MVC** project, and then click **Add Reference**.

2. In the **Reference Manager** dialog box, in the navigation pane, click **Solution** , select **BlueYonder.Model** , and then click  **OK**.
3. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.Model** project, double-click **App.config**.
4. Locate the **&lt;connectionStrings&gt;** section, select the **&lt;add&gt;** element, including its attributes, and then press Ctrl+C to copy the element to the Clipboard.
5. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.MVC** project, double-click **Web.config**.
6. Locate the **&lt;connectionStrings&gt;** section, place the cursor after the **&lt;connectionStrings&gt;** tag, and then press Ctrl+V to paste the connection string.
7. Press Ctrl+S to save the changes.
8. On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.
9. On the **View** menu, click **Server Explorer**.
10. In Server Explorer, right-click **Data Connections** , and then click **Refresh**. **BlueYonderEntities** will display under the **Data Connections** node.
11. In Solution Explorer, in the **BlueYonder.MVC** project, right-click **Controllers** , point to **Add** , and then click **Controller**.
12. In the **Add Controller** dialog box, in the **Controller name** text box, type **LocationsController**.
13. From the **Template** drop-down list, select **Web API 2 controller with actions, using Entity Framework**.
14. From the **Model class** combo box, select **Location (BlueYonder.Model)**.
15. From the **Data context class** combo box, select **BlueYonderEntities (BlueYonder.Model)**.
16. Click **Add** to create the controller.

    >**Note:** You now have a Web API controller for the Location model.

17. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **BlueYonder.MVC** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
18. To start the application without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.
19. A browser will open, in the address bar, append **api/locations** to the address, and then press Enter.
20. On Chrome, XML will appear, on Edge and Firefox JSON and on Internet Explorer a file download will be prompted.

    >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you should have created a web app that exposes the Web API for CRUD operations on the BlueYonder database.

### Exercise 4: Deploying a Web App to Azure

#### Task 1: Create a New Azure Web App


1. Open Azure portal at **https://portal.azure.com**.
2. On the left side navigation pane, click **+ New** and then click **Web App**.
3. Name the web app **BlueYonderWebSite_YourInitials_** (Replace **_YourInitials_** with your initials).

   >**Note:** The name you type will be appended with the **.azurewebsites.net** suffix, providing a unique host name that will be used as your web app's URL. 

4. In **App service plan** select **Create new**.
8. From the **Region** dropdown list, select the region that is closest to your location.
9. Click **Create**.
10. Wait until the web app is deployed.

#### Task 2: Deploy the web application to the Azure web app

1. In Visual Studio 2017, right-click the **BlueYonder.MVC** project in Solution Explorer, and then click **Publish**.
2. Select **Microsoft Azure App Service** and make sure **Select Existing** is selected.
3. Click **Publish**.
4. An **App Service** window will open. If you are logged in to Visual Studio, then your account may appear on the top right. If it doesn't, click **Add an Account** dropdown, then click the **Add an account** item and proceed through the sign in process.
5. After you've signed in with your Azure account, the subscription field will be populated automatically and the **BlueYonderWebsite_yourInitials_** (replace _yourInitials_ with your initials) folder will appear below the group of fields.
6. Expand **BlueYonderWebsite_yourInitials_** folder and select the **BlueYonderWebsite_yourInitials_** web app.
7. Click **Ok** and the publishing process will start, it may take a few minutes.

    >**Note:** Visual Studio 2017 builds and publishes the application according to the settings that are provided in the profile file.

8. After the publish has finished, open a browser and navigate to **http://blueyonderwebsite_yourInitials_.azurewebsites.net/api/locations**
9. An XML or JSON describing a list of locations will appear. (On Chrome - XML, Edge and Firefox - JSON)

#### Task 3: Delete the Azure SQL Database Server

1. Open a browser and navigate to the Azure portal at **https://portal.azure.com**.
2. Open the SQL Server you created in the previous step by opening it through the **All Resources** pane.
3. Click **Delete** and then enter the server name and then **Delete** to start the deletion process.

   >**Note:** Azure free subscriptions have a resource limitation and a restriction on the total working hours. To avoid exceeding those limitations, you must delete the Azure SQL Database resources.

   
   >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you should have ensured that all your products are hosted on the Microsoft Azure cloud by using SQL Databases and Azure Web Apps.

Perform the following steps to apply the **StartingImage** snapshot:

1. On the host computer, click **Start**, point to **Administrative Tools**, and then click **Hyper-V Manager**.
2. In Hyper-V Manager, click **20487B-SEA-DEV-A**, and in the **Snapshots** pane, right-click **StartingImage**, and then click **Apply**.
3. In the **Apply Snapshot** dialog box, click **Apply**.
4. Repeat Step 2 for all the virtual machines that you used in this lab. (excluding **MSL-TMG1**).

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
