# Module 10: Monitoring and Diagnostics

  Wherever a path to a file starts with _[repository root]_, replace it with the absolute path to the folder in which the 20487 repository resides. 
  For example, if you cloned or extracted the 20487 repository to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487**, change the following path:  **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod06** to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487\AllFiles\20487C\Mod06**.

# Lab: Monitoring and Diagnostics

### Exercise 1: Configuring Message Logging

#### Task 1: Open the WCF service configuration editor

1. On the **Start** menu, search for and right-click **Windows Powershell**, and then click **Run as Administrator**.
2. In the **User Account Control** modal, click **Yes**.
3. Go to **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod10\LabFiles\Setup**
4. Run the following command:
   ```ps
       ps createAzureServices.ps1
    ```
5. Follow the on-screen instructions.
6. Wait for the deployment to complete successfully, the web.config files for both the Companion and Server solutions should be already in place. Write down the name of the Azure App Service that is created.
7. Type **exit**. To exit the powerShell window, press **enter**.
8. On the **Start** menu, search for **Visual Studio 2017**, and then, from the search results, select **Visual Studio 2017**.
9. Log in to **Visual Studio**:
   a. On the top right corner of the **Visual Studio 2017** window, click **Sign in**.
   b. Enter the email address you used to sign up to **Microsoft Azure**, and then click **Next**.
   c. Enter your password, and then click **Sign in**.
10. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
11. In the **File name** text box, type **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod10\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Server.sln**, and then click **Open**.
12. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project.
13. Right-click the **Web.config** file, and then click **Edit WCF Configuration**.
14. If a dialog box prompts that the **Microsoft.ServiceBus** assembly could not be found, click **Yes**.
15. Go to **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod10\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost\bin**, select **Microsoft.ServiceBus.dll**, and then click **Open**. 
16. In the dialog box, click **Yes**.

#### Task 2: Configure WCF message logging

1. In the **Configuration** pane, click the **Diagnostics** node, and then click **Enable MessageLogging** under the **MessageLogging** section.
2. Under the **Log Auto Flush** section, click **Enable Log Auto Flush**.
3. In the **Configuration** pane, expand the **Diagnostics** node, and then click the **Message Logging** node.
4. In the **Message Logging** pane, set the **LogEntireMessage** to **True**.
5. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.
6. On the menu bar, click **File**, and then select **Exit**.

   >**Results**: You can test your changes at the end of the lab.

### Exercise 2: Configuring Azure Diagnostics

#### Task 1: Add trace messages to the ASP.NET Web API service

1. On the **Start** menu, search for **Visual Studio 2017**, and then click the **Visual Studio 2017** search result.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. In the **File name** text box, type **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod10\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Companion.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and double-click **TraceWriter.cs**.
5. Implement the **Trace** method by adding the following code to the method.

   ```cs
       TraceRecord rec = new TraceRecord(request, category, level);
       traceAction(rec);
       string message = string.Format("{0};{1};{2}", rec.Level, rec.Category, rec.Message);
       System.Diagnostics.Trace.WriteLine(message, rec.Category);
   ```
6. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.
7. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project. Expand the **App_Start** folder, and double-click **WebApiConfig.cs**.
8. Add the following **using** directive to the beginning of the file.

   ```cs
       using System.Web.Http.Tracing;
   ```
9. Add the following code to the beginning of the **Register** method, before setting the dependency resolver.

   ```cs
       config.Services.Replace(typeof(ITraceWriter), new TraceWriter());
   ```
10. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.
11. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Companion.Controllers** project, and then double-click **ReservationsController.cs**.
12. Add the following **using** directive to the beginning of the file.

    ```cs
        using System.Web.Http.Tracing;
    ```
13. Add the following code to the **Post** method, after the call to the **Save** method.

    ```cs
        Configuration.Services.GetTraceWriter().Info(Request, "ReservationsController", "New reservation was created: {0}", confirmationCode);
    ```
14. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.
15. In the **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and then click **Publish**.
16. In the **Publish** window, click **Microsoft Azure App Service**.
17. Select **Select Existing**, and then click **Publish**.
18. In the **App Service** modal, expand the **BlueYonder.Lab.10** node.
19. Select **blueyonder-companion-10-**_yourinitials_ (replace _yourinitials_ with your initials).
20. Click **OK** and wait for the publish operation to complete.

#### Task 2: Configure Windows Azure Diagnostics for the App Service

1. Open a browser and go to **https://portal.azure.com**.
2. On the menu blade on the left, click **App Services**.
3. In the **App Services** blade, **blueyonder-companion-10-**_yourinitials_ (replace _yourinitials_ with your initials).
4. In the **blueyonder-companion-10-**_yourinitials_ blade, scroll down the menu, and then click **Diagnostics logs**.
5. In the **Diagnostics logs** blade, in **Application Logging (Blob)**, click **On**.
6. In the **Level** drop-down list, select **Verbose**.
7. Click **Storage Settings**.
8. Click **blueyonder10**_yourinitials_.
9. To add a new container, click **+ Container**.
10. In the **Name** field, enter **logs**.
11. Click **OK**.
12. Click the **logs** container, and then click **Select**.
13. Under the **Diagnostics logs** blade, in the **Retention Period (Days)** field, type **1**.
14. Click **Save**.
15. On the menu, scroll up, and then click **Overview**.
16. Write down the value under **URL**.

#### Task 3: Run the client app to create logs

1. On the **Start** menu, search for **Visual Studio 2017** and click the **Visual Studio 2017** search result.
2. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3. In the **File name** text box, type **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod10\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Companion.Client\BlueYonder.Companion.Client.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4. If a **Developers License** dialog box appears, click **I Agree**. If a **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, enter your email address and a password, and then click **Sign in**. In the **Developers License** dialog box, click **Close**.

   >**Note:** If you do not have a valid email address, click **Sign up** and register for the service.
Note these credentials and use them whenever you require an email account.

5. In **Solution Explorer**, under the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, double-click **Addresses.cs**.
6. Locate the **BaseUri** property, and replace the **http://[Web Api web app name].azurewebsites.net/** string with the Azure App Service URL you wrote down in the previous task.
7. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.
8. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** project, and then click **Set as StartUp Project**.
9. To start the client app without debugging, press Ctrl+F5.
10. If a prompt to allow the app to run in the background appears, click **Allow**.
11. After the client app starts, to display the app bar, right-click or swipe from the bottom of the screen.
12. Click **Search**, and in the **Search** text box on the right side, type **New**. If a prompt appears prompting you to allow the app to share your location, click **Allow**.
13. Wait for the app to show a list of flights from _Seattle_ to _New York_.
14. Click **Purchase this trip**.
15. In the **First Name** text box, enter your first name.
16. In the **Last Name** text box, enter your last name.
17. In the **Passport** text box, type **Aa1234567**.
18. In the **Mobile Phone** text box, type **555-5555555**.
19. In the **Home Address** text box, type **423 Main St.**.
20. In the **Email Address** text box, enter your email address.
21. Click **Purchase**.
22. To close the confirmation message, click **Close**, and then close the client app.

#### Task 5: View the collected diagnostics data

1. Go back to the **Visual Studio 2017** instance with the **BlueYonder.Companion** solution open.
2. In the menu bar, click **View**, and then click **Cloud Explorer**.
3. Two root nodes appear in the list - **(Local)** with another node that has the email you used to sign up to Azure.
4. Expand the node with the email in it.
5. Expand **Storage Accounts**.
6. Expand the **blueyonder10**_yourinitials_ storage account.
7. Expand **Blob Containers**.
8. Double-click **logs**.
9. In the **logs** window, double-click **blueyonder-companion-10-**_yourinitials_.
10. Double-click the folder with the current year(For example, 2018).
11. Double-click the folder with the current month (For example, 01).
12. Double-click the folder with the current day (For example, 27).
13. Double-click the folder with the current UTC hour (For example, 12).
14. Double-click the largest csv file to open it.
15. Look for the message that starts with **ReservationsController**.
16. Verify that the requests for the Travelers, Locations, Flights, and Reservations controllers appear.
17. Open **File Explorer**.
18. Go to **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod10\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\Blueyonder.Server.Booking.Webhost**, and then, to open the message logs file in the Service Trace Viewer, double-click **web\_messages.svclog**.
19. Click the **Message** tab in the left pane, and then click the row with **http://blueyonder.server.interfaces/IBookingService/CreateReservation** action.
20. Click the **Message** tab in the bottom-right pane to review the CreateReservation request message. Scroll to the end of the message to view the **&lt;s:Body&gt;** element.
21. In the pane on the left, click the row with the **http://blueyonder.server.interfaces/IBookingService/CreateReservationResponse** action.
22. Review the CreateReservationResponse message on the **Message** tab in the bottom-right pane. Scroll to the end of the message to view the **&lt;s:Body&gt;** element.

    >**Results**: After you complete the exercise, you can use the client App to purchase a trip, and then view the created log files, for both the Azure deployment and the on-premises WCF service.

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
