# Module 6: Hosting Services

# Lab: Hosting Services

  Wherever  you see a path to a file that starts with *[repository root]*, replace it with the absolute path to the folder in which the 20487 repository resides.
 For example, if you cloned or extracted the 20487 repository to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487**,
the following path: **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod06** should be changed to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487\AllFiles\20487C\Mod06**.

### Exercise 1: Hosting the WCF Services in IIS

#### Task 1: Create a web application project

1. To open **Search Windows**, click the magnifying glass next to the **Start** menu.
2. Type **Turn windows features on or off**, and then press Enter.
3. Select **Internet Information Services** once, a black square should appear within the check box.
4. Expand **Internet Information Services**, and then expand **World Wide Web Services**.
5. Select the **Application Development Features** check box.
6. You will also need to activate WCF support before you can deploy WCF services to IIS. To do this:
   1. In the **Windows Features** window, expand **.NET Framework 4.7 Advances Services**.
   2. Expand **WCF Services**, and then select all the check boxes inside it (**HTTP Activation**, **Message Queuing (MSMQ) Activation**, and so on). 
7. Click **Ok**, Windows proceeds to install the required components; when it is done, IIS will be running.
8. Verify that IIS works:  
	a. Open a browser.  
	b. Navigate to **http://localhost/**, an **Internet Information Services** page should appear.

9. On the Start screen, click the **Visual Studio 2017** tile.
10. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
11. In the **File name** text box, type **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod06\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server\BlueYonder.Server.sln**, and then click **Open**.
12. On the **File** menu, point to **Add**, and then click **New Project**.
13. In the **Add New Project** dialog box, on the navigation pane, expand the **Installed** node. Expand the **Visual C#** node. Click the **Web** node. Select **ASP.NET Empty Web Application** from the list of templates.
14. In the **Name** text box, type **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost**.
15. In the **Location** text box, type **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod06\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server**.
16. To add the new project, click **OK**.
17. In Visual Studio, on the **Tools** menu, point to **Library Package Manager**, and then click **Package Manager Console**.
18. In **Package Manager Console**, type the following command, and then press Enter.

   ```cs
        install-package EntityFramework -version 6.2.0 -ProjectName BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost
```
19. Wait until **Package Manager Console** finishes downloading and adding the package.

    >**Note:** Other projects in this solution use version 6.2.0 of the EntityFramework NuGet package. To prevent assembly load failures, you are required to use the Package Manager Console to install that specific package version.

20. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project, and then click **Add Reference**.
21. In the **Reference Manager** dialog box, expand the **Assemblies** node in the pane on the left side. Click **Framework**.
22. Scroll down the assemblies list, point to the **System.ServiceModel** assembly, and then select the check box next to the assembly name.
23. In the pane on the left side, click **Solution**.
24. In the pane on the right side, select each of the following projects:

     - **BlueYonder.BookingService.Contracts**
     - **BlueYonder.BookingService.Implementation**
     - **BlueYonder.DataAccess**
     - **BlueYonder.Entities**

25. To add the references, click **OK**.
26. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.Host** project, right-click **FlightScheduleDatabaseInitializer.cs**, and then click **Copy**.
27. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost**, and then click **Paste**.
28. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project, point to **Add**, and then click **New Item**.
29. In the **Add New Item** dialog box, in the pane on the left side, expand the **Installed** node, expand the **Visual C#** node, click the **Web** node, and then click **Global Application Class** in the list of items. To finish, click **Add**.
30. In the **Global.asax.cs** file that opens, add the following **using** directives to the beginning of the file.

   ```cs
        using System.Data.Entity;
        using BlueYonder.DataAccess;
        using BlueYonder.BookingService.Host;
```
31. Locate the **Application\_Start** method, and then add the following code to it.

   ```cs
        var dbInitializer = new FlightScheduleDatabaseInitializer();
        dbInitializer.InitializeDatabase(new   
        TravelCompanionContext(BlueYonder.BookingService.Implementation.BookingService.ConnectionName));
```
32. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.

#### Task 2: Configure the web application project to use IIS

1. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.Host** project, and then double-click the **App.config** file.

2. To select the contents of the file, press Ctrl+A, and then press Ctrl+C to copy the contents of the **App.config** file to the clipboard.
3. In **Solution Explorer**, expand the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project, and then open the **Web.config** file.
4. Select all the contents of **Web.config** file by pressing Ctrl+A, and then press Delete.
5. To paste the contents of the clipboard in the **Web.config** file, press Ctrl+V.
6. Within the **&lt;system.serviceModel&gt;** section group, type the following configuration.

   ```cs
        <serviceHostingEnvironment>
           <serviceActivations>
        <add service="BlueYonder.BookingService.Implementation.BookingService" relativeAddress="Booking.svc"/>
           </serviceActivations>
        </serviceHostingEnvironment>
    ```
7. Within the **&lt;configuration&gt;** section, type the following configuration at the end of the section.

   ```cs
        <system.web>
            <compilation debug="true" targetFramework="4.5" />
            <httpRuntime targetFramework="4.5" />
        </system.web>
    ```
    >**Note:** Make sure you are adding this code as the last child element of the **&lt;configuration&gt;** element. Adding this code anywhere else within the **Web.Config** file will make the application fail.

8. In the **&lt;system.serviceModel&gt;** section group, locate the **&lt;behaviors&gt;** section, and in it, locate the **&lt;serviceMetadata&gt;** element.
9. Remove the **httpGetUrl** attribute and value from the **&lt;serviceMetadata&gt;** element.
10. In the **&lt;system.serviceModel&gt;** section group, locate the **&lt;services&gt;** section, and in it, locate the **&lt;endpoint&gt;** element.
11. Remove the **address** attribute and value from the **&lt;endpoint&gt;** element.
12. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.

    >**Note:** IIS uses the address of the web application to create the service metadata address and the service endpoint address.

13. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost** project, and then click **Properties**.
14. In the navigation pane, click the **Web** tab.
15. On the **Web** tab, under the **Servers** section, select the **Use Local IIS Web server** option. Ensure that the **Use IIS  Express** check box is not selected. Click **Create Virtual Directory**.
16. Wait for a confirmation message, and then click **OK**.
17. To save the changes, press Ctrl+S.
18. On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.

#### Task 3: Configure the web applications to support NET.TCP

1. On the Start menu, open **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**.

2. In the **Connections** pane, expand the node with the name of your computer; it will probably be the only node in the list.
3. If an **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** dialog box opens asking about the Microsoft Web Platform, click **No**.
4. In the **Connections** pane, expand **Sites**, and then click **Default Web Site**.
5. In the **Actions** pane, click **Bindings**.
6. In the **Site Bindings** dialog box, verify that **net.tcp** binding is listed. To close the **Site Binding** dialog box, click **Close**.

   >**Note:** The site bindings configure which protocols are supported by the IIS web site and which port, host name, and IP address are used with each protocol.

7. In the **Connections** pane, expand **Default Web Site**.
8. Click **BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost**.
9. In the **Actions** pane, click **Advanced Settings**.
10. In the **Advanced Settings** dialog box, expand the **Behavior** node. In the **Enabled Protocols** text box, type 
**http, net.tcp** (replace the current value).
11. To save the changes, click **OK**.

    >**Note:** In addition to adding net.tcp to the site bindings list, you also need to enable net.tcp for each web application you host in IIS. By enabling net.tcp, WCF will automatically create an endpoint with NetTcpBinding.

12. To open **Search Windows**, click the magnifying glass next to the **Start** menu.
13. Search for **Developer Command Line for VS 2017**, and then open it.
14. At the command prompt, type **wcftestclient**, and then press Enter.
15. In the WCF Test Client application, on the **File** menu, click **Add Service**, and in the **Add Service** dialog box, type  **http://localhost/BlueYonder.Server.Booking.WebHost/Booking.svc**, and then click **OK**. Wait until you see the service and endpoints tree in the pane on the left side.
16. Close the **WCF Test Client** application.

    >**Results**: You will be able to run the WCF Test Client application and verify if the services are running properly in IIS.

### Exercise 2: Hosting the ASP.NET Web API Services in an Azure Web Role

#### Task 1: Create a new SQL database server

1. Open the Microsoft Azure portal (**http://portal.azure.com**).
2. Open the **New** blade.
3. Start a **SQL Database** journey.
4. On the **SQL Database** blade, type the following details:
    - Database name: Type **blueyonder**.
    - Resource group: Select **Create new**, and then type **BlueYonder.Lab.06**.
    - Server: Click **Configure required settings**. This opens the **Server** and **New server** blades. Type the following details on the **New Server** blade:
      - Server name: **blueyonder-lab-06-dbserver-**_YourInitials_ (replace _YourInitials_ with your initials. For example, John Doe will become jd)
      - Server admin login: **BlueYonderAdmin**.
      - Password: **Pa$$w0rd**.
      - Confirm password: **Pa$$w0rd**.
      - Location: Pick the closest location to you.
      - Click **Select**
5. Click **Create**.
6. Open a new Visual Studio 2017 instance.
7. Click **Open Project/Solution**.
8. Open the **BlueYonder.Companion.sln** solution file from the **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod06\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server** folder.
9. In the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, click **Web.Config**.
10. Locate the two **{ServerName}** placeholders in the **connectionString** attribute.  
11. Replace the placeholders with the SQL database server with **blueyonder-lab-06-dbserver-**_YourInitials_ (replace *YourInitials*  with your initials. For example, John Doe will become jd).

    >**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have created an Azure SQL database in your Azure account.

#### Task 2: Publish the Companion Web API project to Azure

1. On the **View** menu, click **Task List**.

2. In **Task List**, select **Comments** from the drop-down list at the top.
3. Double-click the comments to view the code that was marked, and then verify that no calls are made to:

    - **UpdateReservationOnBackendSystem**
    - **CreateReservationOnBackendSystem**

       >**Note:** Prior to the deployment of the cloud project to Azure, all the on-premises WCF calls were disabled.
  These include calls from the Reservation Controller class and the Trips Controller class.  
       >After you deploy the ASP. NET Web API project to Azure, it cannot call the on-premises WCF service, so for now, the WCF Service calls are disabled. In Module 7, &quot;Windows Azure Service Bus&quot; of Course 20487, you will learn how a cloud application can connect to an on-premises service.

4. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and then click **Publish**.
5. Right-click **BlueYonder.Companion.Host** project, and then click **Publish**.
6. Select **Microsoft Azure App Service**, and then select **Create New**.
7. Click **Publish**; a **Create App Service** window opens.
8. Fill in the following details:
    - App Name: **BlueYonder-Companion-**_YourInitials_ (replace *YourInitials* with your initials)
    - Resource Group: **BlueYonder.Lab.06**
    - App Service Plan:  
       i. Click **New**.  
       ii. App Service Plan: **BlueYonder_Companion_**_yourInitials_ (replace *yourInitials* with your initials).  
       iii. Location: Choose the location closest to you.  
       iv. Click **Ok**.  
9. To start deployment, click **Create**.

#### Task 4: Test the Companion client against the Azure-hosted Companion Web API

1. Open a new instance of Visual Studio 2017.
2. Open the **BlueYonder.Companion.Client** solution at **[Repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod06\LabFiles\BlueYonder.Companion.Client**
3. In the **BlueYonder.Companion.Shared** project, open the **Addresses** class and in the **BaseUri** property, replace the address of the emulator with the cloud service address you created earlier.  
4. Use the [<b>https://blueyondercompanion</b><i>YourInitials</i><b>.cloudapp.net/</b>]() (replace _YourInitials_ with your initials).

5. Run the client app and search for flights to New York. Verify that the client application is able to connect to the ASP.NET Web API web application hosted in Azure and retrieve the list of flights.

   >**Results**: You will verify the application works on Azure.

### Exercise 3: Hosting the Flights Management Web Application in an Azure Web App

#### Task 1: Create new web app in Azure

1. Go back to the Azure portal.
2. To open the **New** blade, click **New**.
3. To start the Web App creation journey, select **Web App**.
4. Fill in the following values:
    - App name: **BlueYonderCompanion-FlightManager-**_YourInitials (replace _YourInitials_ with your initials).
    - Resource Group: **BlueYonder.Lab.06**
    - OS: **Windows**
    - App service plan: You should have the same app plan that was created in Exercise 2 of Task 1, if not:  
       i. Click **App ServicePlan**.  
       ii. Click **Create New**.  
       iii. Type the following values:  
         - App service plan: **BlueYonder-Lab-06**
         - Location: The location closest to you
	 
       iv Click **Create**.
5. Click **Create** and wait until the new web app is created.

   > **Results**: You have created a new web app by using the Azure portal.

#### Task 2: Upload the Flights Management web application to the new Web App by using the Microsoft Azure portal

1. Open a new instance of **Visual Studio 2017**.
2. Open the **BlueYonder.Companion.FlightsManager** solution file from the **[repository root]\AllFiles\20487C\Mod06\LabFiles\begin\BlueYonder.Server** folder.
3. In the **BlueYonder.FlightsManager** project, open the **web.config** file.
4. Edit the **&lt;appSettings&gt;** section to substitute the **{YourInitials}** placeholder with the initials you have used when you published the Companion Web API project to a new web app in the previous exercise.
5. Right-click the **BlueYonder.FlightManager** project.
6. Click **Publish**.
7. Select **Microsoft Azure App Service**, and then select **Select Existing**.
8. A list of resource groups appears. Expand the **BlueYonder.Lab.06** resource group.
9. Select **BlueYonderCompanion-FlightManager-**_YourInitials_ and then click **Ok**.
10. The deployment starts automatically, and when it is done, a browser opens.
11. Verify that there are flight schedules from **Paris** to **Rome**. This indicates that the application was able to retrieve information from the web role.

    >**Results**: After you publish the **flights manager** web application, you will open the web application in a browser and verify if it is working properly and is able to communicate with the web role you deployed in the previous exercise.

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
