#Module 2: Using Web API

#Lab 1: Developing Web API

###Exercise 1: Create an ASP.NET 5 project with an API controller

####Task 1: Create an ASP.NET 5 project with an API controller

1. Open **Visual Studio 2015**
2. Create a new **ASP.NET Web Application** project, using the **ASP.NET 5 Web API** template, and name it **Mod02**
3. From *Controllers* folder delete *ValuesController.cs* file.

####Task 2: Create model and repository

1. Create new folder and name it **Models**.
2. Add new *class* named **Contacts** to the **Models** folder.
3. Add **Contacts** properties as follows:

	```cs
        public string FirstName { get; set; }
        public string LastName { get; set; }
        public string Company { get; set; }
        public string Email { get; set; }
        public string MobilePhone { get; set; }
```
4. Create new folder and name it **Repository**.
	> **Note:** To keep project simple and focused on Web API we will use in-memory repository. This reporistory will keep contacts for the duration of debug session
5. Create new *interface* named **IContactsRepository** to the **Repository** folder.
6. Add the following *using* statement at the beginning of the file:

	```cs
	using Mod02.Models;
```
7. Change interface access modifier to ***public***
9. Add the following definitions to the interface:

	```cs
        void Add(Contacts item);
        IEnumerable<Contacts> GetAll();
        Contacts Find(string key);
        void Remove(string Id);
        void Update(Contacts item);
```
10. Create new *class* named **ContactsRepository** to the **Repository** folder.
11. Implement ***IContactsRepository*** interface.
12. Add the following *class variable*:

	```cs
	static List<Contacts> ContactsList = new List<Contacts>();
```
13. Implement ***Add** function as follows:

	```cs
	ContactsList.Add(item);
```
14. Implement ***Find*** function as follows:

	```cs
	return ContactsList
                .Where(e => e.MobilePhone.Equals(key))
                .SingleOrDefault();
```
15. Implement ***GetAll*** function as follows:

	```cs
	return ContactsList;
```
16. Implement ***Remove*** function as follows:

	```cs
	var itemToRemove = ContactsList.SingleOrDefault(r => r.MobilePhone == Id);
    if (itemToRemove != null)
    	ContactsList.Remove(itemToRemove);
```
17.  Implement ***Update*** function as follows:

	```cs
            var itemToUpdate = ContactsList.SingleOrDefault(r => r.MobilePhone == item.MobilePhone);
            if (itemToUpdate != null)
            {
                itemToUpdate.FirstName = item.FirstName;
                itemToUpdate.LastName = item.LastName;
                itemToUpdate.Company = item.Company;
                itemToUpdate.Email = item.Email;
                itemToUpdate.MobilePhone = item.MobilePhone;
            }
```
18.       


####Task 2: Create a Post class

1. In the **Mode04Lab01** project, under the **src** folder, add a new folder and name it **Model**.
2. Add a new **Post** class to the **Model** folder
3. Add the following properties to the **Post** class:

	```cs
public int Id { get; set; }
public string Title { get; set; }
public DateTime PublishDate { get; set; }
```

	> **Note:** We will add the object-relational mapping later on, using the Fluent API. 

####Task 3: Create a Blog class with custom mapping

1. Add a new **Blog** class to the **Model** folder
2. Add the following _using_ statements to the **Blog.cs** file

	```cs
using System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations;
using System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.Schema;
```

3. Add the **[Table("Blogs")]** attribute to the **Blog** class

	> **Note:** Entity Framework 7 does not pluralize table names by default, so without the **Table** attribute, the resulted table name would be Blog. You can control the object-relational mapping by using either attributes or the Fluent API, as you will see shortly.

4. Add the following properties with mapping attributes to the **Blog** class:

   ```cs
[Key]
public int Id { get; set; }
[Required]
public string Name { get; set; }
public List<Post> Posts { get; set; }
```

####Task 4: Create an EF database context

1. Add a new **BlogSystemContext** class to the **Model** folder
2. Add a _using_ statement in the **BlogSystemContext.cs** file for the **Microsoft.Data.Entity** namespace
3. Change the **BlogSystemContext** class definition so it will inherit from **DbContext**
4. Add two properties of type **DbSet<T>**, one for the blogs, and another for the posts. Name the properties **Blogs** and **Posts** respectively
5. Override the **OnModelCreating** method, and add Fluent API code to the method, to control the relational mapping of the **Post** class:
	1. Map the **Post** entity to a **BlogPosts** table:

		```cs
		modelBuilder.Entity<Post>().ToTable("BlogPosts");
		```
	
	2. Set the **Id** column as the table's primary key

		```cs
		modelBuilder.Entity<Post>().HasKey(p => p.Id);
		```
	
	3. Configure the **Title** column to require a value ("not null") 

		```cs
		modelBuilder.Entity<Post>().Property(p => p.Title).IsRequired();
		```

6. Open the **Statup.cs** file and add the following code to the end of the **ConfigureServices** method, to configure how to inject **BlobContextSystem** instances:

    ```cs
var connection = @"Server=(localdb)\mssqllocaldb;Database=Module04Lab01;Trusted_Connection=True;MultipleActiveResultSets=true";
EFServiceBuilder.AddDbContext<BlogSystemContext>(options => options.UseSqlServer(connection));
```

####Task 5: Add a database initializer

1. Add a new **DatabaseInitializer** class to the **Model** folder
2. In the class, create a constructor that receives a parameter of type **BlogSystemContext**, and store its value in a private field named **_context**
3. Create an initialization method with the following declaration:

	```cs
public async Task Initialize()
```
4. Add code to the method, which will create and populate the database
	1. Create the database if it has not been created

		```cs
			_context.Database.EnsureCreated();
		```

	2. Check if the database has already been populated with data

		```cs
			if (!_context.Blogs.Any())
			{
			}
		```

	3. Inside the _if_ statement, add code to create new blogs and blog posts:

		```cs
			_context.Blogs.AddRange(
			new Blog
			{
				Name = "Blog 1",
				Posts = new List<Post> {
					new Post {Title = "Post 1", PublishDate = DateTime.Today } }
			},
			new Blog
			{
				Name = "Blog 2",
				Posts = new List<Post> {
					new Post {Title = "Post 2", PublishDate = DateTime.Today },
					new Post {Title = "Post 3", PublishDate = DateTime.Today } }
			});
		```

	4. Add code to the end of the _if_ statement to save the newly created entities

		```cs
			await _context.SaveChangesAsync();
		```

5. Open the **Statup.cs** file and in the **ConfigureServices** method, add code to register the **DatabaseInitializer** class in the DI container with a transient scope

	> **Note:** Use the **AddTransient** extension method to register classes as transient-scoped instances

6. Add a parameter of type **DatabaseInitializer** to the **Configure** method declaration, to get it injected to the method
7. In the **Configure** method, add code to call the **Initialize** method of the **DatabaseInitializer** class

	> **Note:** The **Initialize** method is an asynchronous method, so do not forget to wait for its completion. 	
	If your code does not wait for the method to complete its execution, your Linq queries may execute before the database gets created and/or populated

####Task 6: Consuming Web API ========

1. Run the web application, make sure you get a response from the server, and then return to Visual Studio

	> **Note:** If you ran the application with debug, stop the debugger

2. Open the **SQL Server Object Explorer** window, and add a connection to the **(LocalDb)\mssqllocaldb** instance
3. View the **Module04Lab01** database's table, and make sure you see the **dbo.Blogs** and **dbo.BlogPosts** tables
4. View each table's data, and verify there are several data rows in each of the table

	> **Note:** You can compare the data in the tables with the entities you created in the **DatabaseInitializer.Initialize** method

#Lab 2: Self hosting and consuming Web API

###Exercise 1: Self hosting Web API

####Task 1: Configuring Kestrel

1. Open the **ValuesController** class, and delete the class's content
2. Add _using_ statements for the **Microsoft.Data.Entity** and **Mod04Lab01.Model** namespaces
3. In the class, create a constructor that receives a parameter of type **BlogSystemContext**, and store its value in a private field named **_context**

	> **Note:** In the previous exercise, you registered the **BlogSystemContext** type with the DI service. 
	When the controller is created, the DI service will create an instance of type **BlogSystemContext** and inject it to the constructor call

4. Add a method to retrieve a list of all the blogs and theirs posts, ordered by the blog's name
	1. Create a method that returns an **IEnumerable<Blog>**
	2. Decorate the method with the **[HttpGet]** attribute
	3. Use the **_context** field to return a list of **Blog** objects, including their posts. Order the blog list using the **Name** property

		> **Note:** To eager load the list of posts for each blog, use the **Include** extension method.

5. Add a method to retrieve a specific blog, according to its ID
	1. Create a method that receives an **id** parameter of type _int_, and returns a **Blog** object
	2. Decorate the method with the **[HttpGet("{id}")]** attribute
	3. Use the **_context** field to return a **Blog** object with the matching ID

		> **Note:** This method returns the blog without its list of posts, so you do not need to perform eager loading here.
		To retrieve a single result from the query use either the **Single**, **SingleOrDefault**, **First**, or **FirstOrDefault** extension methods

####Task 3: Configuring WebListener

1. Run the web application, and verify you get a JSON that includes two blogs ("Blog 1" and "Blog 2") and their posts ("Post 1", "Post 2", and "Post 3")
2. Browse to a specific blog, and verify you get a JSON with its information

> **Note:** If you ran the application with debug, return to Visual Studio 2015 and stop the debugger

###Exercise 2: Self hosting Web API

####Task 1: Consuming Web API from Console Application
1. Run


####Task 2: Configuring Web API from HTML/JavaScript
1. Run
