#Module 7: Deployment

#Lab 1: Exporting IIS Packages

###Exercise 1: Exporting IIS Package using Visual Studio 2015

####Task 1: Exporting Web Application

1. Open **Visual Studio 2015**
2. Open starter solution located at *[Labfiles]\Mod07\LabFiles\Lab01\Begin\Mod07*.
3. In Solution Explorer, right-click the project **Mod07** project and select **Publish**.
4. In the *Publish Web* dialog, on the *Select Publish target* tab, select ***File System***
5. Enter a profile name and click ***Next***.
6. On the *Connection* screen, you can change the publishing target path and click **Next**.

	> **Note**: for the sake of simplicity, please leave the default value of ***..\..\artifacts\bin\Mod07\Release\PublishOutput***

7. On the *Settings* tab, make sure ***Release*** configuration is selected, ***Target DNX Version*** is set to **Default (dnx-clr-win-x86.1.0.0-rc1-update1)** and click **Next**.
8. Review publish path and click **Publish**.
9. Once visual studio finish publishing, open **File Explorer** and navigate to the publish folder (***..\..\artifacts\bin\Mod07\Release\PublishOutput*** folder case of this lab).
10. Note the **approot** and **wwwroot** directories. We will copy both directories to the target IIS server in the next task.

####Task 2: Preparing the IIS Server

1. Use remote desktop app to connect to the XXXXX server
2. TBD
3. ...

####Task 3: Deploying the Web Application

1. Copy the **approot** and **wwwroot** directories from you machine to the target IIS server.
2. On the target IIS server machine, in IIS Manager, create a new **web site** named **Mod07** and set the physical path to **wwwroot**.
3. On the root level of IIS Manager, select the server in the **Connections** pane on the left.
4. Double-click **Configuration Editor** icon in ***Management*** section.
5. In the **Section** drop-down, select **system.webServer/handlers**, and then click **Unlock Section**.
6. Set the application pool to **No Managed Code** as ASP.NET 5 runs in a separate process and manages the runtime.
7. Click **OK**.
8. Switch back to the development machine and open web browser. Navigate to the following URL:

	```URL
	http://TBD/
```
9. This step concludes the lab. 


#Lab 2: Deploying to staging and production in Azure WebApp

###Exercise 1: Deploying Web App using Visual Studio 2015

####Task 1: Deploying Web Application

1. Open **Visual Studio 2015**
2. Open starter solution located at *[Labfiles]\Mod07\LabFiles\Lab01\Begin\Mod07*.
3. In Solution Explorer, right-click the project **Mod07** project and select **Publish**.
4. n the *Publish Web* dialog box, click on **Microsoft Azure App Service**.
5. Use the following credentials to log in to Azure subsciption

	```text
	Username: TBD
	Password: TBD
```
6. From the ***Subscriptions* drop down select **TBD**.
7. Expand the ***Resource Groups*** list and select ***TBD***
8. Click **OK**
9. On the *Connection* screen review the publishing settings and make a not of *Destination URL*. This URL will be used later in the lab to navigate to the Web App. Click **Next**.
10. On the *Settings* tab, make sure ***Release*** configuration is selected, ***Target DNX Version*** is set to **Default (dnx-clr-win-x86.1.0.0-rc1-update1)** and click **Next**.
11. Optionally, On the *Preview* tab, click ***Start Preview*** button and after **Visual Studio** displays the list of files make sure all required Web App files are in the list.
12. Click **Publish**. 
13. After the **Visual Studio** publishes the Web App, it will automatically open in default web browser.

	> **Note**: First app launch might take few seconds.  
14. This step concludes the lab.

